00:00:05 - 00:01:27
Okay, perfect. I think I figured it out. Let me just check make sure we are live here. Yes, we are. Okay, perfect. Can you guys hear me? >> I can hear you as is. Good morning. >> Okay. >> Yes, we can hear you. Yes, I can hear you. >> Okay, perfect. >> Good morning. Good morning. As is >> good morning. Uh please as I would like to talk to you after the class I don't know outside here if you don't mind. >> Okay. Um cuz the class is very long today and I I do have a hard stop after

00:02:40 - 00:04:01
it. So maybe um I'll see if we have enough time. If not, we can probably just meet some other day. >> I'll let you know. >> Okay, thanks. >> Yeah, no problem. Just a second, guys. So, we'll start we'll start shortly. Um, so, um, I want to check something. There was a setting I I saw um that one time on Zoom where you can um so on YouTube. Can you guys hear me? If you guys can hear me, can you guys type yes or no? So I don't know. Someone said, Someone said they can't hear me.

00:04:34 - 00:06:12
Someone said they can't hear me. So, I just want to make sure you guys can hear me. Okay, perfect. All right. So, Bailey, you might have to probably refresh or something. Okay. Thank you guys for confirming. Okay. All right, it's 10:58. So, let's let's start because we do have a lot to cover. Let me share my screen. So, I just a second. There's one last thing I need to do before we start. All right. 10:59. Let's start. Okay. So, I imed you guys this um document and this document is going to be pretty

00:06:29 - 00:08:08
much our this document is going to be our guide for the project and everything you are going to need to complete the project is on this document. Um for example, here we have the project assets right. So here we are going to download the project assets. So we'll do it together. The reference architecture for the project. Um the agenda. So I have it in word and poweroint. The naming convention. So, for some of you guys that uh that will be struggling with um yesterday the um the v the live stream is being recorded so you can you

00:07:25 - 00:08:38
can watch it later when you finally have access to your AWS console. So, Lou, I sent it to your email. So, if you if you filled out the um just a second, I'll post it here again for those that don't have access to it. So the live if you are watching on YouTube is for free. You have access to the same m course material and everything. But the only difference is you don't have access to me. You you can only comment on YouTube and I'll respond there when I see it. Right? But if you

00:08:37 - 00:10:12
are on on the zoom call then you are in the paid one. That's the difference. But in terms of like the project and everything you get access to everything is the same thing for everyone. Okay. So that's the document there for those that don't have access to it. Did you pay? you should have received an email this morning cuz everyone that has um um can you post your can you post your um email here or email me at email me right now at here So, everyone that has like an active membership, I did send them an email

00:09:36 - 00:10:52
this morning and I've been sending them an email all week, so I'm not sure. Uh, check your email. So, either that or just email me now and I'll add you. I'll send you the Zoom link, then we can sort it out later. All right, I'm checking now. Uh, please uh let me see if you've emailed me. Just please email me. Just you don't have to type anything. Just your email. Just send your email so I can respond to it with the Zoom link. Okay, I got it. Okay. Sent. All right. Uh,

00:11:03 - 00:12:27
yes, you can use if you have an existing domain, you can use it. But in this today, I'm not covering how to how to move your domain to AWS. So you you should already have that moved to AWS and ready to go if that's the route you are going. Okay. So um so you guys open this document, right? So first thing I want you guys to do is open this document. Once you open this document, download the project asset. That's the one that I highlighted in red. So here, just click download. Download it to your

00:11:48 - 00:13:05
computer. So if I show you here, I've just downloaded to my downloads folder. You guys can see it here. And once you download it, um, unzip it. So I'm going to right click on it in my downloads and I'm going to extract all. Extract. And now I have the project asset here. So once you click on it, you should see project asset and here you'll see all the pretty much the different files we will be using throughout this project. So that's the first thing you guys should do while I

00:12:27 - 00:13:54
um there's one thing one else one more thing I need to do. Then also once you've done that also log into your AWS account if you haven't done that. trying to log into my WS account. There's one more thing I need to do. Yeah. And that's Recording in progress. Okay, I think I'm ready. All right, let's start. All right, so once you've download the file, um I want you to log into your management console. So we have that ready. The one thing I want to talk about before we start is um

00:14:55 - 00:16:22
registering for a domain name. So you need a domain name. No, we are not using Terraform to deploy um anything today. We are starting from the basics which is building learning how to build um the infrastructure on AWS manually. So in order before you can use terraform you need to understand how to u build things in manually in AWS. So that's what we are covering it. It is a progressive um class. Um by the end of this project by the end of the um the program you there will be a Terraform project but for now we are

00:15:39 - 00:16:47
only using the management console. So you first you learn you have to learn how to manually create it in the management console. Um is the screen blurry for you guys or can you guys see >> uh we can see >> I think it is clear here. >> Okay. Yeah. All right. Perfect. What about you guys on YouTube? Can you guys see or is it blurry? So if you can see, let me just uh just please give me like a quick fe. >> I think it's clear. I just checked it as is. >> Okay, it's clear. Okay. So if you are on

00:16:18 - 00:17:34
YouTube, if you having audio issue or your screen is blurry, try refreshing. I think it's just on your end cuz everyone is clear for them. All right, perfect. So um um yes. So I was talking about the domain name. So the domain name is you you don't need it to complete the project. So if let's say you don't because everybody's watching from different parts of the world. So if you don't have $15 to register for the domain, you can when we get to that domain name part, it is a small part of

00:16:56 - 00:18:08
the project. You can just watch to get an understanding of the process. Then later on, there are other ways to get domain domain elsewhere and transpired into AWS. If you need help with that, I I can do a research for you. Maybe we can join another time where those that want to get their domain transfer, you'll be able to do that. We'll do it together. But for today, everything I'm going to be teaching you guys is going to be we are going to be using AWS uh service except for like when we get

00:17:33 - 00:18:53
to like the third party tools like Docker, Terraform, then we'll be using those two or an um for majority of the tools we are going to use. If AWS offers it, that's what we will use. Um yeah, so that's that. So, I kind of have a preference for you guys to register a domain name now. So, that way when we get to it, cuz it might take some time for it to propagate. So, that way when we finally get to the domain name, your domain name will be registered and ready to go. So, for those of you that are interested, if

00:18:13 - 00:19:35
you want to register for a domain name in your management console, in your management console, just a second, just want to make sure. Okay. In your management console, you are going to type route 53 here. Then you select route 53 under uh services here. If you already have a domain name in your account like you can see I already have a domain name um you don't have to register for another one. You can use the same domain name you have. So here if I click my hosted zone I already have a domain name that I'm going to use. But

00:19:00 - 00:20:45
for those of you that don't have a domain name once you are on route 53 you can select dashboard here. It is going to bring you here. Then whatever your domain name is, let's say it is um ais test.com, right? Just type your domain name what you want. Then you are going to click check. So once you click check AWS will give you all the domains that are available here. You can see as this test is available I can either pick any any of these. So whichever one you are interested in. I haven't test deploying on any any other

00:19:57 - 00:21:22
like so. So I've only always used. So make sure you use com. So let's say if is this is the one I want. I'm just going to click select here. Then here I'm not going to register for one but I want to show you guys how to register for it. So you are going to click um proceed to check out. Then on this page you are going to click next. Right? I'm not going to click next yet because on the next page is it's like a is your contact information. So you can see the steps here. You have pricing,

00:20:39 - 00:21:51
you have contact information and you have submit and review. It it is very straightforward. It is like you are applying for anything. Right? So on the contact page your information will be there or if it is not there enter your information then you can complete that process because if I click next now my information is already there and I don't want to expose it. So it's a very straightforward process. Once you are done going to cancel here and like I said if you even if the registering of the domain name if it is

00:21:15 - 00:22:38
something you can't do today that is fine. Um I have a video that shows you how to register for one. I can also send that video to you guys. Um once you are done um here on that register domain so back in your 53 on that register domain if you click here you'll see the domain there. So if your account standing is good meaning like your billing and everything is good with AWS there's no issue. Once you fill the form and register for one, it should take probably 15 minutes for everything to roll in. And

00:21:57 - 00:23:17
under register domain, that's where you will find it. That's the only thing. But you you should still be able to complete 95% of the project. Um, does anyone have any question before we start? There's something I want to tell you. >> I have a question but it's not related to the domain name is related to the project itself. >> Okay. What is your question? >> Okay. I completed the project in January and um I shared because I was doing everything documenting on my dev.2 to

00:22:43 - 00:24:18
blog and uh I had someone who commented I mean left a comment on my under my post saying uh the process was too complicated and that there was a way to do that using a just using um an S I mean an S3 bucket and CloudFront will be enough I mean for the project cuz using the N gateway uh and all the other services we use for the project were kind of expensive. So I I I I I mean I read the the comment and I was okay. I'm new to this. I really don't know what he's really talking about and I just say I will keep

00:23:30 - 00:24:40
it to discuss the issue with you. Um if it's possible and uh how do you I mean what's your what's your point about it? So the reason why we are using um >> Here is the link. Here's the link. >> The reason why Yes. No, it's fine. I understand what you what you are referring to. >> Okay. >> The reason why we are using this reference architecture is because you guys are a beginner. You are trying to learn how to um build build something in AWS, right? All

00:24:10 - 00:25:33
right. >> It is a it is a comprehensive it is more comprehensive to use a reference architecture like this to yes you can host a static website in an S3 bucket. It is one of the AWS basics. But how what does that teach you about creating a VPC, setting up um internet gateway, route tables, things like that, right? So yes, you can you can host a static website in AWS um using S3 bucket but we are learning how to build an infrastructure in AWS. So that's why we are doing it this way because this is

00:24:52 - 00:26:07
also the basics. This is the project you are starting with. It is the basic of the projects where we are not using any database >> and the the website we are building is not dynamic but you learn a whole lot more hosting your static website this way than hosting it in an S3 bucket. So that's why we are using this reference architecture. It is for learning purpose. >> All right. Thank you very much Alis. >> You're welcome. All right. So the next thing is you guys can open the I mean you I'm going to

00:25:30 - 00:27:09
open it here but you guys can also open it if you want to follow along. So the project agenda um not this one the the uh PowerPoint one that's what I'll use to let me see if I can All right. So we are hosting a static website. So what I'm going to do is like each each of these in building this project there are different sections. So what I would um advise from you guys is to is to wait for example if when we are building a VPC and I'm showing you guys if you are running into any issues let me

00:26:19 - 00:27:38
finish building the VPC then at the end of each section I would save 5 minutes to 10 minutes to answer any question anybody's question. The only reason why I'm doing it this way is so that when you guys watch the playback or when I can go back and edit the videos, I can um I can I can cut out the parts where the there's the Q&A and put it at the end of the video. So that way you guys have a smooth experience watching the playback. So that's the only reason why I ask that when I am working on something if if you

00:26:59 - 00:28:13
run into any issues while we are working on that stuff give us time to finish give me time to finish configuring it then at the Q&A part of that section you can ask your question. So don't please don't interrupt me in the middle of me configuring stuff. So whatever questions you have just raise your hand in the chat and once I'm done I I will start getting u picking you guys one by one. So um that's it right. We are going to host a static website on AWS. Um and that's a good question. I think it was

00:27:36 - 00:29:08
Ammon that asked that question. That's a good question Ammon asked, right? >> Yeah. >> Um it is yes, you can host a static website on AWS using um using an S3 bucket. But the whole point of me showing you guys how to do it this way is when I started this was the very first project I did which pretty much gave me a good foundation for building things on AWS. This is the very first foundation that I used to build infrastructure on AWS. Right? That is why I am showing you guys um this way

00:28:22 - 00:29:46
because there's we are not using database or website is not dynamic. There is not those extra things we have to configure. So when we are hosting a static static website it is very straightforward. But in doing that you you will learn how to build a VPC with public and private subnet. set up your route tables, set up security groups, um use S3, configure your server, um set up application load balancer route 53. So you you learn a lot. That's the only reason why we are using it this way. So when you learn the static

00:29:04 - 00:30:33
website then on next week when we do the dynamic website you already learned pretty much 60 to 70% of the the process we you are just adding extra things to it. That's why we are using this method. And from my experience, right, majority of the application you will see that you will build at work are built this way. Even if your company has a static website, it would probably be hosted this way. It won't be hosted in an S3 bucket. I personally I haven't seen I've worked on many projects where uh we have an

00:29:48 - 00:31:15
application, right? I have not seen anyone hosted in an S3 bucket. So that is why even though it is in AWS documentation and all that stuff, right? Uh you have to tailor your your learning to yourself like learn things that would help you get to that to your goal. Right? So this is a little bit more complex than hosting it in an S3 bucket. So we are going to um build a static website on AWS today and this is the reference architecture we will use right some of the service we will use is AM role um key pair VPC with public and

00:30:32 - 00:32:13
private subnets um EC2 and so on right and let's start so when you are building stuff in AWS The first thing you have to build, the first thing you should learn is um network which in AWS network is a VPC, right? You must understand how to build a VPC front and back, right? You must that's the first thing you must understand. And it is very easy to build a VPC. It it is something you can learn. U it just takes practice with everything we are doing. It takes practice, right? The more you practice,

00:31:22 - 00:32:40
the better you get at it. Um just to give you guys a background, when I started to I didn't have any cloud experience. Um I I was working as a mechanical designer and even before that I went to school for like uh fixing cars. That was pretty much what I learned. I I didn't I never consider myself a book person or someone that um can do any of these things. I used to just look for skills that involves just using my hands. But then when I realized that people that if you look around almost everyone that use

00:32:01 - 00:33:16
their brain are the ones that get paid the most, right? So that's when my cousin recommended AWS to me just the same way I'm recommending it to you guys, right? My cousin recommended AWS to me and I said I'll give it a try. I was very desperate to change my situation at the time mainly um increase my income. So I started studying just like you guys are doing now and that's what led to today and um it's it's been one of the best decision I've ever made. So I'm telling you guys

00:32:39 - 00:34:12
what you are doing today matters right? I want you guys to see it as little u progress that you guys are making um does compound and become big achievement in the future. So what you are doing here today does matter. All right. So the first thing you learn when you are building something in AWS is uh how to build a VPC. So that's what we'll learn today, right? So here we are uh going to build our VPC. So the reference architecture that I showed you guys previously, right? You can see here I'm only showing you

00:33:25 - 00:34:57
the part of that reference architecture we are building right which is our VPC in AWS cloud. The reason why I'm showing you this is um to make it progressive so you guys can see how we build the service in the reference architecture step by step. Right? The first step of building our reference architecture is uh building the VPC, right? I mean you guys should already understand what a VPC is. But a VPC is your own personal space in the cloud. So when we talk about a cloud, right, let's not even call it

00:34:10 - 00:35:30
cloud. All a cloud is is it is a computer that is located somewhere, right, that you can remote into and use at any time. That's all it is. So when you think of a cloud, just think of a computer that is located somewhere that you are using to do whatever workload you want to do, right? So AWS is the one providing that computer for us, right? So you, me and everyone on this call can log into that computer and do something, right? So and imagine if you have a a computer, right? and everyone is logging

00:34:50 - 00:35:56
into it to create their own application. You don't want everyone to just be scattered all around and creating their own application, right? You want everyone to have their own personal space within that computer that they can use to host whatever application they want to host and set up whatever they need to set up there because your own setup might be different from mine. That's where the VPC comes in. It is your own personal private network area on that computer that you can use to set up any

00:35:24 - 00:36:29
application you want. The easiest way to think about it and you guys let me know if this makes sense is think of it as an apartment complex. You you you know in an apartment complex there's like a whole house, right? And there are multiple people renting in that apartment complex, right? You guys are not just renting one big hall and everybody's living in that one big hall, right? In an apartment complex, you have your own room. You can arrange your living room, your uh bedroom how you want. You can allow

00:35:56 - 00:37:20
who you want in your apartment and your neighbors can do the same. So you have neighbors in that one big apartment complex. Everyone has their own room. It's kind of like the same way with VPC in the cloud in in that on that computer we are using everyone has their own private virtual network there. So that's what we are building the VPC and in this VPC is where we would um now start running our application in. And another thing I forgot to mention is also why uh why does all this matter anyway, right?

00:36:37 - 00:38:06
Let's um think of like a website, right? Um like apple.com for example. Apple.com is hosted most likely on the cloud, meaning that it's hosted on some on a computer. that website you guys are accessing the the files and and code for for the that website that is running is hosted on on a computer that is located somewhere. Right? So that is what Apple is using to run their business by making their website available. you people go and go to their website and buy iPhone or buy iPad, right? Where what you do matters is

00:37:23 - 00:38:38
because Apple needs to host their website to be able to serve their customers. They need engineers like you that understand how to help them host their website on a computer. So, that's most likely what you'll be doing. So there's different um things you can be doing as a cloud engineer but most likely when you start working your company will have some type of application they are hosting on the cloud. So that's that right. So the first thing we are going to do is uh build a VPC. So here we'll

00:38:01 - 00:39:28
come into the management console right and once you are in the management console the first thing you want to do is select the region you want to build your VPC. So here I'm going to select the region here and I'm going to build my VPC in the Northern Virginia region. So whatever region you want to build your VPC that's what you select first here. So once you've select your region next you are going to type VPC in the search box and select VPC under services. Then you are going to click create VPC

00:38:50 - 00:40:26
here. And here we are going to click VPC only. For the naming convention, if you guys want to follow along, you can feel free to use the same naming convention that I provided for you guys here. Right. For the VPC name, we are going to call it dev VPC. And for the VPC cider, we are going to use 10.0.0.0/16. So here we come back to our VPC. VPC name, let's call it dev VPC. And under IPv4 cider block we are going to use 10.0.0.0 slash 16. So because this is kind of like this is like an high level

00:39:56 - 00:41:03
building stuff in AWS right you don't have to understand how to how we get this cider block right this is a I'm telling you this is a cider block we will use for this project and when you are building a VPC for your company your company will have their own specific cider block that that they use they will most likely tell you for this VPC use this cider block And this is kind of like also where you can digress a little bit to learn about networking if you are interested in it. But for it, we'll just use this cider

00:40:30 - 00:42:02
block, right? And when you start work, your company will most likely tell you the cider block that they will use for their VPC. So for the IPv4, we are going to use 10.0.0.016 0/16 and we are not going to use any IPv6 and the tenency is going to be default and the tags is already populated from the name of our VPC. Then then here we are going to click create VPC. We have successfully create the VPC. We have successfully created the VPC. Right. The next thing we are going to do is enable DNS host name in this VPC. And

00:41:22 - 00:42:54
what DNS host name does is when you create resource in the BPC like an EC2, they will that resource will have their own domain name. And I'll show you later on when we create the EC2. So this is very important for things we will build. So anytime I build a VPC, I always enable DNS hosting. So here under your VPC, select action and click edit VPC settings. Then under DNS settings, check enable DNS host names and click save. And that's all you need to do to create a VPC. The next thing we are going to do is you

00:42:15 - 00:43:52
can refresh here. Just your web browser refresh it. Then you can filter by VPC. So if you click filter by VPC, you should see the dev VPC you just created. Click it. And that just means once we are creating the other resource we would only see the ones in the VPC we are working on right this here. So the next thing we are going to do so let me even just pause here and I'll take like a maybe like a 3 minutes break. Does anyone have any question here in creating the VPC? >> I have a question in the chat.

00:43:16 - 00:44:21
>> All right. The region you pick is when you pick the region where you are creating your VPC. it is you can pick any region you work you want to work with right most people tend to pick region that's close to where they are located that's fine but it's up to you what region you pick so I like using Northern Virginia which is everyone almost like using Northern Virginia because it is AWS I guess first region and it is a good region to use but all the regions are good right but

00:43:49 - 00:45:13
how you guys should think about the region is when you are working for a company. When you are working for a company, the company will build their application in the region that is closest to the customers they are serving. That is where the region comes in play when you are working for a real company. So if their customers are in UK most likely they will use a region that is close to UK because then there will be less latency in the their customer downloading things accessing their application right so region comes into

00:44:31 - 00:46:04
play when you are considering the people you are serving. Okay. Um Josh asked u what is why do we need cider block? Right. So the the and to explain it in a basic way is not like I'm an expert at at it but this how I'm going to explain it to you when we are creating a VPC right now right and we are going to launch different resources in this VPC things like EC2 N gateway application load balancer right every resource you guys launch in your VPC or you guys just know every device you are using, your computer,

00:45:23 - 00:46:45
everything uh your cell phone, any device you have in your house, any device that has access to the internet has an IP address, right? They have um yes, an IP address, right? That is how you are able to find all these devices on the internet, right? So when it comes to our VPC when we specify the cider block right the cider block is kind of mapping the IP address that the different resources we are going to launch in our VPC will use automatically. So when you create those resources in your VPC they will be

00:46:04 - 00:47:07
automatically assigned an IP address that is close to that is in the range of the cider block you are specifying. So that's why we need cider block. It helps us assign an IP address to the resources we are going to be launching in our VPC because devices you guys know devices online how they find each other is through their IP address. So that's why you need a cyber block in your VPC. So for what you are doing now for this project you guys will be learning new things you whatever questions you have

00:46:36 - 00:47:45
on things that is popping light bulb in your head right those things down because those are things you will go and do more research on to get a deeper understanding on right um so it will be one of those question that was a good question Josh right >> sorry I have a question >> sure go ahead Yeah, the under the DNS setting, there's also uh enable DNS resolution. What does that do? I know you talked about DNS host name, which is the one we checked, right? >> What does the DNS resolution? What does

00:47:14 - 00:48:18
that do do? [clears throat] And the other question is we selected a default uh VPC instead of dedicated. What's the difference between both of them? Thank you. >> Um the resolution one that I have to look up. I'm not sure what it does, but it's always enabled there automatically. Um, leave it. I'll do a research on it and I'll get back to you on that. But the um the the the tendency is when you are building a VPC, right? You are building your own specific area in the cloud,

00:47:46 - 00:49:09
right? um you always want to pick the default tenency because you are saying that you want to use the same hardware that AWS is using for everyone to build your VPC. So you are saying that the computer that everyone is building their VPC on. You are saying that build my VPC on the same computer that Aiz is building his VPC on that Josh is building his VPC on that Hammond is building his VPC on. But if you pick dedicated you are saying that you want AWS to build your VPC on your own specific let's just say hardware specific thing

00:48:27 - 00:49:40
that is just only you is in that space and that that cost a whole lot. So you guys don't ever pick don't ever pick um don't ever pick um dedicated just use the default. >> Um yeah. So >> okay. >> So okay let's move on. So I would any other questions you guys have at the next next section you can save it for then then I'll answer it. So now that we have created our VPC, the next thing we are going to do is create an internet gateway and attach the internet gateway

00:49:04 - 00:50:26
to the VPC. So you guys can see over here. Just a second. You guys can see over here, right? I'm learning how to use this thing. We created a VPC here, which is this thing. Right now, we are creating the internet gateway. Yeah. And please excuse me, I'm still getting used to this pen. Right. We are creating the entire gateway and attaching it to the VPC. Right. The point of this internet gateway is it allows any resources we create in our VPC to have access to the internet. And my my thing is not straight. Let me see

00:49:54 - 00:51:08
if I can just use the mouse. So So any resources we create in the VPC, the internet gateway gives them access to the internet cuz as you guys know our end users will be here. The website we are building right people will want to access the website. those people are on the internet over here. So any resource in this VPC, it gives that resource access to the internet and it also gives people that are on the internet access to our VPC. That is the point of an internet gateway. Uh excuse my my scrabble, but uh I hope you guys get the

00:50:31 - 00:52:08
idea. So um that's the point of the internet gateway. So let's build that internet gateway. Um So to build the entire gateway we are going to come to our VPC console right then on the left side here we are going to see entire gateway right then here you can refresh and we are going to now click create internet gateway we'll call it dev internet gateway Okay, let's call it dev IGW. You can use the name the same name from the naming convention. Then click create entire gateway. And that's all you need to do to create

00:51:25 - 00:52:49
an internet gateway. Once you create an entire gateway, you can now attach that entire gateway to the VPC. Right? Because remember, you have to create it then attach it to the VPC. That is what will give resources in the VPC access to the internet and people on the internet access to resources in your VPC. So here to attach it to the VPC AWS makes it very easy. You can click attach to a VPC here or you can also click actions and click attach to VPC. Then under available VPC you select this dropdown. You should see your dev VPC

00:52:06 - 00:53:44
you just created there. Select it and click attach internet gateway. And that's all we need to do to create an internet gateway and attach it to the BPC. The next thing we are going to do is we are going to create subnets. So we've created our internet gateway here. Next we are going to create our subnets. So here we are using a three tier architecture. Three tier means that you have a a subnet. You have a subnet here that is dedicated to resources that needs to have direct access to the

00:53:06 - 00:54:26
internet, right? Resources that needs to have access to internet. That is a public subnet. Then we have two private subnets here. So that is why we call it three tier cuz it's one, two, and three. Right? So the first tier of the private subnet, the one in the middle, we are using that for the app app servers, right? So that means that when we launch our EC2 instance that we will host our website on, right? That is the subnet that we want to launch any EC2 instance on. We don't have a database for this project,

00:53:46 - 00:54:49
but next week when we work on the dynamic website, we would have a database. Right? Sorry Aziz, I don't mean to cut you off. Can you zoom into the reference architecture? They're asking. They can't see what you're pointing at. I don't think I can zoom in any more than this. Um um if you guys can see you, you might have to. So you guys have the same reference architecture. So just follow along follow along with the the one I sent to you guys. because I already have it on on full

00:54:28 - 00:55:51
zoom. So, I can't zoom in any longer. So, you guys can just use the same one that I sent to you guys. So, the um the subnets, right? These are the subnets. So, next week when we have database, right, we will we would create our subnet. We'll create we will create our database in the data subnet. So let me explain again right we have three different type of subnets right a public one and two private one. The public one we will use it to launch and you guys will see when we launch those resources you will see why we need

00:55:10 - 00:56:19
a public subnet. We will use it to launch any resource that needs access to direct access to the internet. things like N gateway then for the first tier of the private subnet that's is is what we will use to host our server the server which I'm talking about the EC2 that is going to we are going to host our application on then the third subnet which is the private subnet database is this they are the same thing the private subnets are the same thing we are just giving it a name the name we

00:55:44 - 00:56:55
are giving it is allowing us So when we look at it, we can say okay or this is a subnet for database. This is a subnet for EC2. That's just what the name does. And that's the subnet we are dedicating to our database. We don't have a database in this project. Next week we will have a database. And here we have the same subnet duplicate in another availability zone. So you guys know within a region whether when we pick Northern Virginia right now, right? I'm using Northern Virginia. In Northern Virginia, AWS has

00:56:20 - 00:57:46
different data centers in Northern Virginia. So in one area AWS within miles of each other, I don't know how far, but within let's just say miles from each other, AWS has different data center. So what the the availability zone means is that all the different data centers AWS have within that region, you can create um your application in one of those data center and also duplicate it in another data center within the same region. So it just allows you to have um redundancy and also fault tolerant

00:57:02 - 00:58:13
application where if one of these availability zone was to go down your application would automatically and you'll see how we'll do that later on when we set up autoscaling group where your application will automatically be deployed in the other availability zone and you can still serve your end users Because you guys have to start think you have to think when you are building this thing as you are serving a company right the the their website has to be on up and running 100% of the time it can have

00:57:38 - 00:58:55
a downtime and how you protect the website for in case if anything happen is when you are building your VPC accounting for things like this where you are setting up um your VPC with subness has a different availability zone. So the point of this is in case one availability zone goes down, the other one will be still available to serve your website. Um all right. So let me play this and uh let's build our subnet. So we are going to first build the public subnet then we'll build the private subnet. So

00:58:26 - 00:59:51
let's go to the management console and for the subnets right the naming convention is for the public subnet in the first availability zone we'll call it dev public a1 and the cider block is going to be 10.0.0.0/24 0 /24 right so let me just I can you can copy this if you want if you guys want to uh a simpler way you can copy right then we'll come to our management console select subnet here click create subnet and first you are going to select the VPC you are creating the subnet in so

00:59:10 - 01:00:43
here going to select my devp. Then under subnet settings, we are going to give the subnet a name. So it is going to be the dev public subnet easy one, right? And under availability zone, right, remember I said in that region there are multiple data centers, right? That is the availability zones. So here you can see in the Northern Virginia region that I'm using there are these availability zone US East 1 A US East 1 B C D and E in any region you pick you will see this availability zones there are some

00:59:57 - 01:01:12
availability some region has more availability zones than others but you will still see multiple availability zone in the region you pick right so So for my first availability zone for my VPC, I'm going to select US East 1A. So what I'm saying is whatever availability zone you guys pick as your first availability zone, that is the availability zone that you will build all your subnets in the first availability zone in public and private. Right? So since I picked US East 1A as my first availability zone, please note

01:00:35 - 01:02:13
whatever region you whatever availability zone you pick, that's what will be your first availability zone. So we are now going to enter the cider block for our subnet. So here you can see the cider block for our VPC and under IPv4 subnet cider block. Right here I said the cider block is going to be 10.0 0.0.0/24. So here I'm going to type 10.0.0.0 slash24. Right? So just to um also speak on something remember I said when we create the VPC we'll specify a cider block we want to use which lets us know the type of IP

01:01:28 - 01:02:52
address that we assigned to the resource in that VPC. So depending on whatever cider block you are using there is so many IP address that that cider block can have right. So when we are using 6/16 now I think it's like 250 something IP address or something like that right. So now that we are creating a subnet the point of us specifying another cider block this 10.0/24 0/24 means that we are dividing this let's say this VPC can hold 260 something cider block right we are and we want to create six subnets we are now

01:02:10 - 01:03:33
splitting we are splitting those cider blocks for the entire VPC into those six subnets we are dividing it into those six subnets so that's why we need a cider block for the subnet too so let's say the VP VPC is going to have a cider block from 1 to 25. The VPC is going to have an IP address from 1 to 256. Right? Then we what we are saying is like in this first subnet we want cider block we want IP address from 1 to 50 to be assigned to this subnet. That's the easiest way to explain it. So

01:02:51 - 01:04:16
meaning that your old VPC we are just splitting it down. We are dividing it into the six subnets we are going to create. So here we are going to use this cider block and the tags is already populated. We'll click create subnet. Right? So we are going to create the second subnet in the second availability zone. Right? This subnet in the second availability zone. So here we are going to click create subnet. Again we will select the VPC we are creating the subnet in and we are going to scroll down under subnet

01:03:36 - 01:04:52
name we are going to call it dev public cuz we are creating it in the second availability zone. Right. Under availability zone, we are going to select here. I use US East 1A as my first availability zone. I'm going to use US East1B as my second availability zone. You can use any availability zone you want. Just be consistent. Whatever you picked for your first is going to be your first and whatever you pick for a second will be your second. So I pick USS 1B, right? Then on that IP before cider block we are going to use

01:04:18 - 01:05:26
10.0.1.0/24 0/24 and like I said to create this project don't worry about the cider block for now if you don't understand it even me I don't understand it fully um because it's like a networking is a whole topic on of his own but note it down as things you you should do more research on most likely when you are creating a VPC at your company like I said your company would tell you what cider block to use so that's the cyber block we will use for this 10.0.1.0/24 and we will now click create subnet.

01:05:03 - 01:06:30
So we've created both of our subnets. If I remove this filter here and I'm going to filter it by my VPC again, you can see I have two subnets dev public a1 dev public a2. The next thing we are going to do once we created once we create this subnet the one we are using for our public subnet the next thing we are going to do is enable auto assign IP settings for this for this subnet and I will explain what that means right so first let's select the the first public a1 then under actions

01:05:46 - 01:07:32
click edit subnet settings and here check this enable auto assign public IPv4 address and click save. We will do the same thing for the second subnet. Actions, edit subnet settings, enable auto assign IP before address. Scroll down and click save. The reason why we are enabling auto assign IP when we launch our EC2 it will make sense is that because this is a subnet we want to use for public subnet and any resource we launch in this subnet. We want it to automatically have access to the internet. we want to

01:06:40 - 01:07:50
automatically assign an IPv4 address to to those resources. That's why we need to enable that. And I'll show you when we build our IC2, I'll show you I'll mention those things to you. I'll mention them. I'll point them out. But I'm saying when you create public subnet that is a certain you want to enable unless if your company say we don't want to assign any public IP address to any resource then you you leave it unchecked but generally speaking you want to enable that.

01:07:16 - 01:08:58
So we've created the two subnets that we would dedicate to public resource. Now let's create the remaining subnets that we will dedicate to private resources. So you create click create subnet again right then you select your VPC and under subnet name we are going to call this subnet dev private app easy one. So here we're going to call it dev private app one. Once you give it a name for the availability zone we are going to choose our first availability zone for this project. I'm using US East18.

01:08:19 - 01:09:44
So, I'm going to select it here. Um, let me do this if you guys just in case if you guys are not seeing my screen better. So, let's do this. Right. So, I'm going to pick my first availability zone. Remember whatever availability zone you use for your first public subnet as your first availability zone you have to be consistent. So since I use USS 1A that's why I'm picking USS 1A here. Then under cider block we are going to use a cider block of 10.0.2/24. So here we type 10.0.2.0/24.

01:09:10 - 01:10:52
0/24 and click create subnet. We've create the private app subnet, right? Let's create the second private app subnet in the second availability zone. So we would click create subnet and first thing we'll do is select our VPC. Then under subnet settings we'll give it a name. It is going to be dev private app2 and the cider block is going to be 10.03.0/24. So here I'm going to call it dev private app a2 and this and under availability zone I'm going to select US east 1b because that is my

01:10:16 - 01:11:52
second availability zone. Then under subnet cider block it is 10.03 0.3.0/24. All right. Once you enter your cider block, scroll down and click create subnet. Then we have created now we've create four subnets so far, right? We created the we created the two public and the two private app. So now we need to create the private data in both availability zone. The the process to create subnet is the same thing. So if you can create one subnet, you can create 50 subnets, right? It's the same process, right? So we are going

01:11:14 - 01:13:00
to click create subnet again. First we will select the VPC we want to create the subnet in and under subnet settings for the subnet name we will call it dev private data a1. So here let's call it dev private data a1 cuz we are creating it in the first availability zone. Then under availability zone we'll select our first availability zone which is US East1A. Then under IPv4 cider block this is the one for the VPC but for the subnet we want to enter a cider block of 10.0.4.0/24. So here we'll enter 10.0 0.4.0/24.

01:12:19 - 01:14:03
Right. So once we enter the cider block, that's all we need to do and we'll just click create subnet and we'll create our last subnet. So I'm going to click create subnet. Right, we are going to select our VPC. Under subnet name, we'll call it dev private data easy2. Then we'll select our availability zone. Our availability zone will be US East 1B. And for our subnet cider block, it is going to be 10.0 0.5.0/24 and we are going to scroll down here and click create subnet.

01:13:25 - 01:14:58
We've created all subnets. So you can remove this filter for the subnet ID. And if I drag this down, you'll see all the subnets we just created. Right? So you should have dev private. You should have dev public a1. Dev public a2. Dev private app is a one. Dev private app 2. Dev data is one. Dev private data is one. Dev private data is two. Right? So if you scroll to the side over here, I also want you to review your slider block. Right? So this this should be 10.0. 0 0 0 24. Then you should have 1 2 3 4 5. So that's kind of

01:14:12 - 01:15:45
like the sequence of the cider block. Right? So this is just we are doing some visual check to make sure we haven't create the wrong thing. Right. So then the next thing we are going to check is the availability zone. So if you scroll to the right you can see we have USS 1 A, USS 1B, USS 1 A, USS 1B, USS 1 A, USS 1B. So it's just a visual check. All right. So we are done creating the subnets and we at the question. So if you have any question uh let me know. Is there a documentation on what fields

01:15:10 - 01:16:22
uh field value uh to select or input when creating um different services. It's kind of hard to uh to keep up right. Yes. So for any service you create there is there is documentation for it. Right. There's documentation for it. If this is the first time you are creating a VPC, it would it would it should feel like that. But the by time you create your third VPC or third VPC, you will understand the process. It's it seems like a lot the first time, but that is that is just like anything you do for

01:15:47 - 01:17:19
the first time. It's not going to be easy. It's going to it's going to seem like a lot. But for any resource you are you create in AWS, AWS does have a documentation for it. So if you go on AWS and just type VPC, how to create a VPC documentation, it will come up. All right. Does anyone else have any question? Okay, cool. Let's move on. So we've create our we've create our subnet right the next thing we are going to do is create a route table that we are going to call public route

01:16:37 - 01:17:49
table right the and I'll explain the job of that route table we'll create a route table for the public subnets right so let's do that before we even do that right the point of this route table if you guys look in the reference architecture right you can see we are creating the route table here and the route table is attached to the public subnet right the point of the route table is remember we said the the resources we are launching in the public subnet they have to have access to the

01:17:14 - 01:18:46
internet how those resources will have access to the internet is through the route table. So the route table is what gives it access to the internet right and you'll see that. So let's create um the route table. For the route table we are going to call it dev routtb or route table public. Right. So in your VPC here select route tables and click create route table. We'll give it a name. It's dev rtv public. I think that's what it's called, right? Then you will select the VPC you want to

01:18:03 - 01:19:35
create the route table in. It is going to be the dev VPC. Then you are going to click create route table. So we've created the route table right we call it dev route table public. The next thing we are going to do is add a route to this route table. One thing I want to point out is when you create subnets, right? When you create subnet and we call the public subnet, private app subnet, private data subnet as it stands. Now, all these subnets are the same. Just because we call Just because we call a subnet a public

01:18:54 - 01:20:03
subnet at this point in the creation of our VPC. Just because we called the public subnet does not make it public subnet. It is not public yet. It is the name public subnet is just a visual name we are giving it to say oh this is the subnet we would designate for public resource. But as it stands now, all these subnets are the same. So how we would now truly make a subnet public is what we are doing now when we create a route table. So that's one thing I want to point out. This is going to be an

01:19:29 - 01:20:49
interview question cuz they're going to ask you what is the difference between a public subnet and a private subnet. That question usually just always come up, right? So we've created our we've created our route table, right? So in order to so the next thing we need to do is we need to add a route to this route table that is routing traffic to the internet. I will explain everything as we create it. So we need to add a route to it that is routing traffic to the internet. So here under route right you are going to

01:20:12 - 01:21:47
select on that route make sure you are on the route tab you are going to select here edit routes then here you'll click add route then the destination when you want something to go to the internet the that is always 0.0.0.0 right so anywhere you see 0.0.0 in in anything coding application cloud it is that is that means the internet right so pick that 0.0.0 zero from the drop down and the target you are going to select this dropdown and you will select internet gateway. Then once you select entire gateway

01:21:01 - 01:22:18
you'll now select this dropdown. You should see your entire gateway there the dev entire gateway. Select that one and click save changes and that's all we need to do. So we add question. So if anyone has any question you can ask. Lou asks, "What's the difference between internet gateway and route table?" Right. Internet gateway allows any resources in your VPC to have access to the internet. But when you create a subnet, the subnet is just a subnet. So now the route table is how you

01:21:43 - 01:23:02
route traffic in your VPC. So is is how you tell your VPC that for this subnet I want the traffic to be routed this way. They will still be routing traffic through the internet gateway. As you can see when we created that route table we added a route here that is going to the internet right through the internet gateway through the internet gateway here. So you're still using your internet gateway. The internet gateway overall allows any resource in your VPC to have access to the internet. The route table

01:22:22 - 01:23:37
is how you specify how traffic will be routed within your subnets to the internet. It will make sense. It will make sense as we go. Right? So we've created this route table that is routing traffic to the internet. The next thing we need to do is we need to associate this route table we just created with our public subnet. That is what makes those subnet public. Remember I said all the subnet we just created are all the same. What would make a subnet public is what you guys are saying here. So this

01:23:00 - 01:24:29
is something I want you guys to note. Don't ever forget. It might come up during your interview. What really makes a subnet public is the subnet will have a route. The subnet will be attached to a route table. Before we even do that, let's just attach it. Right? So, we created our route here. Routing traffic to the internet through the internet gateway. Now, we need to attach it to subnet. Right? So, here click subnet associations. Then click edit subnet associations. And here select your dev public a1 dev

01:23:44 - 01:25:15
public a2. Then once you select it, click save associations. So now you can see we are still in our dev route table public. On that route, we have a route here that is routing traffic to the internet. 0.0 is internet through the internet gateway. And if you now select subnet associations under explicit subnet association, it is attached to it. It is associated with dev public a1 dev public a2. Now these two subnets dev public a1 and dev public a2 are public. So this is what makes a subnet public.

01:24:37 - 01:26:08
When we just created them before and we called a public subnet it wasn't public. What truly made them public is when we created someone said to explain the route table part again. Right? What makes this subnet? We have subnets. We have subnets here. This two, the one, the green one that we want to make public. Meaning that any resource we launch in those in those subnet, we want them to have direct access to the internet. Right? To do that, we need to create a route table, which we did. Then in that route table, we need to add

01:25:25 - 01:26:45
a route to it that is routing traffic to the internet. Remember the internet gateway allows any resource in your VPC to have access to the internet. So to add a route to that route table to have access to internet, all we need to do is add a route which we click edit route here, right? and we add a route that is the destination is the internet and the target is the internet gateway. Then once we did that once the route table has this route we now associated this route table with dev public a1 dev

01:26:07 - 01:27:29
public a2 that is what makes those two subnets public. Now those two subnet are truly a public subnet. Does that make sense? If that makes sense, you guys please let me know. So um okay, cool. So don't forget this because it is going to be an um it is going to be an interview question and this is one of the basic things you should know. Like if you say you are a cloud engineer, you are ready for a job. They will just throw randomly throw this question at you. What makes a subnet public? You should

01:26:51 - 01:28:17
just respond. A subnet is public when the route table that it is associated with is routing traffic to the internet through the internet gateway. That is what you are seeing here on routes. Right? So technically we are done creating our VPC. I mean kind of like we are done creating our VPC almost done. Right? But there's things I want to point out. Right? We have We have um we have created a route table associated it with the public subnet and I said those subnet are public right. So if those subnets are public what are

01:27:38 - 01:28:53
these private four subnets we have right? Yes Josh you are right. Yes. So Josh is asking is it safe to say that the route table is an extra permission layer for what resource that we have access to the internet? Yes. So the the route table is just you are specifying the route table is how you are saying that for the subnets that I created this is how I want any resource I put in it how the traffic for those resources to be routed. And the good thing about when you guys are creating this is like you only have

01:28:21 - 01:29:26
for the most part you only have public and private subnets. So you know there's not other complicated route you will have to set up. I mean there's stuff in there but I'm telling you guys you just only for now where you are you only need to worry about what makes a subnet public and what makes a subnet private right? We already covered what makes this subnet public. So someone said are you trying to say that that uh say that as many subnet that are not associated with the route table are private subnet. Good question.

01:28:57 - 01:30:10
So you kind of asked that head. Good question. Yes. So now we had six subnets. We set up the route table and we associated it with the public subnet. I told you that now those subnets are public. So someone is now asking so what now what makes this this subnets the four subnets that we haven't assed with any route table what makes them private or are they even private so the question is the route tables that are left that we have not associated with any I'm sorry I I think I said route table the

01:29:33 - 01:30:54
four subnets that are left that we have not associated with any route table Yes, they are private in AWS. In AWS, how AWS when you build things in AWS, one thing you should know is like things are denied by default. So when you create anything in AWS, those things are not given access automatically. AWS lean more towards on the side of not having access. So when we created those six subnets, they were all private by default and I'll show you how you would know that. Then now when we created the route

01:30:14 - 01:31:22
table, we asserted with the with the public subnet because that route table is routing traffic to the internet through the internet gateway. These subnets are public, right? So now let's look at what makes this other private or private app and private data subnet private. >> I'm sorry. One quick question before we go to the private on on the public subnets. We also enable to assign a public IP address to those subnets, right? >> Yes. >> So that what makes it public public as

01:30:48 - 01:32:09
well? >> No, it wasn't public when we auto when we enable when we add those settings. The settings is just saying that any resource we launch in those subnets, they will get a public IP address. >> Got you. Okay, makes sense. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So, in your management console, right? >> Excuse me. >> Yes. Hello. >> Okay. Yeah. Okay. The two subnets quickly. The uh public subnet A1 and public subnet A2 both of them have uh the auto assign IP, right? >> Yes. Correct.

01:31:29 - 01:32:57
>> Yes. So both for public a1 and public a2 we enable auto assign IP. Yes. So in your VPC right first I want you to filter by your VPC if you are not doing that right. Then I want you to select route tables. In your route table in your VPC you will see two route tables in there. You will see a default one and a dev one. The dev one is the one we just created. And you can see here we have our dev route table. It is under explicit subnet associations. It is associated with two subnets. And you see this first one here. You can

01:32:16 - 01:33:44
see here it says main and under main it says yes. So what I'm saying is when you create a VPC AWS would automatically create a route table in that VPC that is this route table you are seeing here that is called main and by default this route by default this route table is a private route table and how I would prove to you is a private route table is if you select routes cuz any route table. You can select it and select route and move this up. You can see in this route table it is only routing traffic

01:33:02 - 01:34:05
in our VPC. There is no route to the internet through the internet gateway because remember I said that's the only thing you need to know if you want to a subnet to have access to internet gateway your route table that is associated with it. It only needs you only need to do one thing that I want you guys to focus on for now, which is um adding a route to the internet through the internet gateway. And you can see for this route table, it only has a local route, meaning that it is only routing traffic in the VPC, not

01:33:34 - 01:34:53
outside of the VPC. Right? So now watch, go back to the details tab, not the details tab, and subnet associations. Right? So you can see under explicit subnet associations there is no nothing here. But if you scroll down here you can see subnet without explicit associations. And read what it says here. The following subnets have not been explicit explicitly associated with any route tables and are therefore associated with the main route table. So what does that mean? It means that when you are creating subnets in

01:34:14 - 01:35:49
AWS, AWS is automatically associating those subnets with the main route table and the main route table is private by default because it doesn't have any route to the internet. That is what makes our other four private subnets private. Does that make sense? You guys type yes if it makes sense. So the job of the main route table in your VPC, you should always leave it there. Is to automatically protect your resources, right? So as you are creating the subnets AWS don't want them to be public because is that's a security

01:35:06 - 01:36:20
risk, right? So AWS just create the default route table that doesn't have access to the internet and AWS is automatically associating them with the main route table. Now when you now want to now say okay for this subnet I created I want this one to be public. That's when you now explicitly associate it with something with a route table. Right? The something is going to be route table. That's why you see here they have explicit subnet assation meaning that you went yourself and said this is what I want this subnet to be

01:35:43 - 01:36:52
associated with. So as it stands now we have two public subnet and four private subnets. So that is another thing I want you guys to note the job of the main route table. I have a checklist of knowledge checks of all the things you guys should know by the end of this project. And if you are working on it for the first time, I'm telling you guys, it might sound foreign and and this and that. You just all you got to do is stick to it. It it it gets better. You I'm telling you, by the time you create

01:36:18 - 01:37:36
a VPC two, three times, you won't have to learn how to create a VPC. They can wake you up from your sleep and you'll be able to create a VPC. It's it is not that difficult. Honestly, the first time, if this is the first time you are creating it, it could look like that, but I'm telling you, you just really need to stick with it. So, so as it stands now, we have um six subnets. If I make my screen like this, and you guys type yes or no, you can you guys still see better or do you like it

01:36:57 - 01:38:53
the way I have it at 125? Cuz I feel like everything is just squished in. If you guys can see this one or you prefer the 125%, let me know. Everything's okay. Okay, cool. Right. So, so right now we have six subnets, right? And two route tables. uh tutorial guru which one is yes you want the 125 or the the 110. So we have the option of of uh this or this 110. Okay, cool. All right. So we have two route tables now. We have two route tables now. Right. For the one we call route table public, it is explicitly associated with

01:38:16 - 01:39:47
two subnets which we called um the public subnets. Right? That's the difference. So what I'm saying that on your note write down um what makes a subnet public and the job of the main route table. So the next thing we need to create is um the next thing we need to create is a a n gateway. So as our VPC stands now right, any resource we launch in the public subnet here, they have access to the internet which is good, right? But our private subnet any resource we launching here does not have access to

01:39:04 - 01:40:11
the internet and that is good. We don't want the point of our private subnet is we don't want for the resources we are use we are using to for the resources we are using to host our application we don't want the internet to have direct access to it because that is how people can hack into your server they can bring your site down and you know when you are serving customers imagine if Apple's website was down now they'll be losing hundreds of millions per probably per minute because

01:39:38 - 01:40:43
people are going to their site as we speak ordering iPhone ordering Apple products and for every seconds that their site is down is not good right so what you have to think of as a engineer is when you are building this thing is how to protect those resource and one of the first level of protection we use is the private subnet meaning that the the server that will be hosting our application once we put it in this private subnet Right now as I speak it doesn't have access to the internet and the people on

01:40:10 - 01:41:46
the internet don't have access to it. It is just there. Right. So the next thing we are going to do is we are going to create the N gateway. And what this N gateway does is it allows any resource we launch in our private subnet. Think so if whatever I do for this think of it as the four the four subnets it allows the resources in our in our private subnet in our VPC to have access to the internet. Let me do that again. It allows them to have access to the internet. Internet is here. But still the users,

01:41:07 - 01:42:25
let's say this is the users on the internet, right? Still the users on the internet do not have access to those resources. So the job of a n gateway is it allows your private resources meaning the resource in the private subnet in your VPC to have access to the internet but users on the internet still don't have access to those resource that's exactly how you want it and you may ask why does the resource in our VPC needs to have access to the internet the thing about it is like it could be for several

01:41:46 - 01:43:06
reasons But the the one the main one that I will point out is when we launch an EC2 here for example when we launch EC2 in our private app subnet you you guys know when you launch the EC2 it whatever the last update AWS made on that EC2 is what is there. So when you launch the EC2, one of the security things you have to do is you have to update all the softwares on that EC2 to the latest software for so that way there's no security vulnerability on that EC2. So when you go and update the softares on that EC2 in order to do that

01:42:26 - 01:43:47
they need those EC2 need access to the internet. So they are going to the internet to download the updates and anything by default anything that if the resource in our VPC initiates the uh traffic to the internet right when they get the response back from the internet the updates they are trying to download those response will be automatically allowed back into those resource. That's how it works. So the job of the N gateway we are about to create is just to allow those resources in our VPC

01:43:07 - 01:44:25
access to the internet. The private res the resources in the private subnet >> question. >> Yes sir. Go ahead. >> How many N gateways are we creating? One or two? >> We will create one. Good question. So we are only going to create I I'm showing you two N gateways here on the reference architecture because it goes with the same philosophy the same concept of what I was explaining about the availability zone you in at your job you want two N gateways just because if this

01:43:46 - 01:44:49
availability zone is down then you still have a N gateway in the other availability zone that is routing your traffic to the internet But this N gateways, they do cost, but it's not going to cost you anything because we're going to finish the project today and delete them. So, it's not going to cost. So, that is why we don't want this N gateways and that's why we won't create two N gateways. We will just create one N gateway and we will use that one N gateway for all of our four subnets.

01:44:17 - 01:45:46
And um are we putting it the net gateway in the private subnet a1 or a2? >> Anyone? It doesn't matter. >> Okay. >> Yeah. So that's what we're about to do. Uh so uh why do we need um the dev route table private? We will explain that. Hola. So um let's create our n gateway. I'm going to then in your BPC right select [clears throat] not gateways then click create N gateway then the name for the N gateway you can call it dev N gateway easy one so I'm going to create it in the first

01:45:05 - 01:46:32
availability zone so dev uh not GW easy one and another thing I want to mention is that once you give it a name on that subnet your N gateway and another thing is when sometimes people you might have a solutions architect at your company that will draw the reference architecture another clue I want you guys to use when you are creating your project which is why I'm kind of showing you guys this agenda I'm showing you guys this agenda Um I'm showing you guys this agenda as we are building everything as we go. Right?

01:45:49 - 01:46:51
Look at where I have the N gateway on the reference architecture. I have it in the public subnet. So you can create it in any of the public subnet. So what I'm saying is when you are using a reference architecture to build something in AWS look at the reference architecture where the nagu that resource is placed on the reference architecture because that's what you need to be doing when you are building it to so when you are creating your nagu now automatically you should know that this is going in the public

01:46:20 - 01:48:02
subnet not the private subnet. So under subnets we are going to select this dropdown and we will select our private no we will select our public dev either dev dev public a1 or dev public a2 you can select anyone so I'll select my dev public a1 remember n gateways always goes in the public subnet not private subnet Then for connectivity we will leave it on public. Then under elastic IP allocation we are going to the thing about the N gateway is it needs an elastic IP right. Um it just it needs an elastic IP. So remember I said

01:47:12 - 01:48:32
every resource you create needs must have an IP address right. So the N gateway is the same in but in order for the N gateway to have an IP, it is not an IP that is auto assigned to it. You have to allocate one. So here just click allocate elastic IP. AWS will allocate one for that N gateway. Then that's all you really need to do to create a N gateway and click create N gateway. We have created a N gateway. Um the state is pending. We'll just wait for the N gateway to be created. I'll click refresh here.

01:47:53 - 01:49:15
It probably takes like a minute to create the N gateway. But in the meantime, do you guys have a question? Okay, cool. Um the N gateway is still pending but I think we can we can probably move on with it. Right. So that brings us to the next question. So all I saying so why do we need um why do we need um the dev route table private? So why do we need another route table that we are calling private? Right. So let's go to our route tables in our VPC. I'm going to filter by my VPC. In our VPC, we have the custom route table

01:48:46 - 01:50:10
we created for the public subnet. Then we have the main route table. You don't best practice for security purpose. You don't ever want to touch the main route table that AWS created there automatically. Leave it there. The job is to any subnet that is being created, the job is to automatically make them private for you until you go and now decide what you want to do with those subnets. Right? So now that we have created a n gateway and we said the job of this n gateway is to allow resources in our VPC to have access to

01:49:27 - 01:51:04
the internet. Right? How we configure that is once we create once we create the N gateway right we need to also set up a route table the same way we did for the public route table right and that's exactly what we are going to do so let's do that so in our VPC make sure you are on route tables right you'll now click create route table we'll give the route table a name. We'll call it dev RTB private. Then you select what VPC you want to create it in and it is going to be the tag is going to be the same. Right?

01:50:21 - 01:51:35
So remember your route table name your VPC then click create route table. Remember in order for the subnets to the job of the route table is it is specifying how traffic for your subnet should be routed right so we've created another route table now right now currently the route in this route table is only routing traffic locally right but we want this route table to route traffic to the internet through the internet gateway no sorry excuse Excuse me, I said that wrong. So, we want this route table to

01:51:00 - 01:52:32
route traffic to the internet through the NAD gateway. So, here we are going to first click edit route and we are going to add route. Remember internet traffic is 0.0.0.0/z. So, select that. Then for the target we are going to select N gateway. Make sure you select N gateway not internet gateway N gateway. Then here we're going to select this dropdown and select your N gateway. Then click save changes. So now we have a route table that is routing traffic to the internet. Can see it here. It is routing traffic

01:51:47 - 01:53:10
to the internet through the N gateway. Remember the job of the NA gateway is everything is still going through the internet gateway but the the N gateway is specifically there to filter the traffic some more that the private subnet will have access to the internet but the users on the internet will not have access to resources in the private subnet. So let me explain that. Let me show you on the picture so it makes sense. So we just created the route table, right? We are we added a route to it. So the route

01:52:30 - 01:53:45
allows we add a route to it. But we are going to ass with the subnet. But we are we add a route to it. The route allows any resource in our private subnet to have access to the internet through the NAD gateway. It's still everything is still going through the entire gateway but the N gateway specifically is filtering that allowing this resource in the private subnet to have access to the internet right but any user that is on the internet you me anybody that's trying to access this resource in the

01:53:07 - 01:54:15
private subnet is denied they they won't have direct access >> so quick question is it so it's basically the purpose of using the addresses to for outbound connections through the private subnet to access the internet. So basically it send a request to the net address. >> Yes. >> Okay. >> So the job of the NA gateway is only to allow your resource in the private subnet access to the internet. And I explain one of the reasons why your resource in the private subnet might

01:53:41 - 01:54:51
need access to internet is to download updates. Gotcha. Makes sense. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Awesome. >> Cool. Right. So, that's the job of the N gateway. So, let's clear and let's close this. And I'm going to go back here. So, we've created our N gateway. I mean, we've created our route table and add a route that is routing traffic to the internet through the N gateway. The only thing we need to do now is associate this route table with a subnet. Right. So we're going to come to

01:54:15 - 01:55:50
subnet associations right and under explicit subnet associations we will select edit subnet associations and here make sure you select your dev private data and dev private app to make it clear you can do this to sort it like that so you can see it clear. So you need to select your dev private data subnets and dev private app subnets. So those are four subnets that you'll be selecting. So once you select those four subnets you click save associations. Right. So now in that same route table we are created

01:55:04 - 01:56:32
a route table that is routing traffic to the internet through the N gateway and we have also associated with with the private subnet. Now we have now we truly have public subnet and private subnet. So the thing you should know is what makes a subnet public and what makes a subnet private. Let's visit it again. Everything is on the route table. A subnet is public if it is associated with a route table. Let me show you. If it is assated with a route table that is routing traffic to the internet through the internet

01:55:48 - 01:57:02
gateway. I'm telling you this may come up on your interview and you don't ever want to miss this because it's the basics and a subnet will be private if it is associated with a route table. You can see these are associated with this route table that is routing traffic to the internet through the N gateway. That's the difference. Sorry. Quick question. I thought I thought I heard you say that the network net gateway routes traffic through the internet gateway. I'm a bit confused

01:56:33 - 01:57:34
about that. I thought it was just routing traffic through to the internet directly. Um, I believe it does still use because if we remove the internet gateway from our VPC, no resource in our VPC will not have access to the internet anymore. >> Okay. So, it's doing in the background. It's not that we have to. >> Yeah. No, it's not something we have to it's still doing the job of the n the n the configuration of it. It knows how to do all that stuff where it would it it

01:57:03 - 01:58:14
is there just to add an additional filter where it just allows the resources in your private subnet to have access to the internet and deny people from the internet to have access to your resource. >> Yeah. Cool. >> Yeah. >> So, just quick question. So, I posted in the chat. So as far as like with the private rout table and that gateway, how would this work in um in the internet type of situation being uh in my company we have uh a few microervices we would like to move on to AWS. So will this be

01:57:38 - 01:58:53
the same setup since we don't want some of our services like accessing the internet directly? Yes, it will be the same setup unless if you guys if there are maybe other VPC resources you guys can set up but I mean for basic for general public and private subnet it will be the same thing. So if you guys need private subnet to put resources in it yes that's the setup. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Sorry, A is um if I get you right, what you mean is the N gateway uh acts like layer that blocks inbound traffic

01:58:15 - 01:59:22
and allow outbound traffic, right? >> Correct. Exactly. So that's exactly what it's doing. It's just kind of like a layer >> that allows the resources in your VPC access to the internet, but the private resources in your VPC access to the internet, but still the internet people don't have access to the resource in your private subnet. >> All right. Thank you. >> You're welcome. So, at what point uh at what point does uh at what point does the entire gateway

01:58:49 - 01:59:52
the entire gateway and the n gateway route traffic to public at what point right so the entire gateway you guys think about it the entire gateway is needed for your VPC to just even have access to the internet right it's there if we remove that entire gateway the not the the resource in our private subnet will still not have access to the internet and all these things we can test so when you build stuff you can go and remove the internet gateway and see if your EC2 is able to download packages

01:59:20 - 02:00:33
from the it right. So we can test these things. So, the entire gateway is there. It's still there. And I think I Let me see if I can I I I know I have the documentation somewhere, but I don't want to uh just go off the tangent to go look for it, but I'll find it and I'll show you guys in the AWS documentation. It clearly shows that um it clearly shows that it is still using the internet gateway. Yeah, the internet gateway. Your VPC needs it to have access to the internet. So with that said, we are pretty much

02:00:15 - 02:01:26
done building our VPC. So this is how you build a VPC with public and private subnets. And I'm also saying that at work, if they ask you to build a VPC with public and private subnet, this is exactly how you do it. And you'll see at you guys job for your VPC with public and private sub go check you'll see that it's the same thing. So this is it seems like a lot but it's really not a lot. Once you build couple of VPCs right you can build a VPC just like that in no time. Literally it can take you 10 to 15

02:00:50 - 02:02:07
minutes. You're done creating your VPC. And here all we are doing now is practice because by the time we get to Terraform we'll be using automation to build our VPC. So um for now you need to learn how to build a VPC and also understand what you are building. Okay. So we are done. We are done with VPC. Does anyone have any question? >> Yes. There's a there's a way to test what we just did. We will test it when we launch our EC2 instance and and and resources in our VPC. Then we will test

02:01:32 - 02:03:14
it. Okay, for visual purpose, right, this is what your VPC should look like. Everybody's VPC that's following along. So, go to the management console, select your VPC, right? And select your dev VPC here. Then select resource map. So everybody's VPC should look like this. So you guys can kind of visually review your VPC. Now, let me drag this a little bit up so you can see. Yeah. So we have our VPC and in US 1A you can see our dev public a1 subnet route table internet gateway or the best

02:02:28 - 02:03:40
way to do it is uh connections right just select the connection the internet gateway right you can see the um public subnet right and if you select Select the N gateway that should be pointing to your private subnet right. Then the same thing for the route table. If you select the route table private that should be pointing to your private subnet and if you select the public that should be pointing to your public subnet. So those are like visually that's how you can verify for now. So sorry if I may. So what is the

02:03:10 - 02:04:32
purpose of the default uh route table? Then route network that is there. The the the job of the default route table is to make your subnets private by default until you go and specify what you want to do with it. So as you are creating it, the default route table is making it private. >> Okay. Okay. But you you you will not use the default route table for your real workload. It is just there to help you make things secure. But you still go and create your own custom route table. You understand?

02:03:53 - 02:05:03
>> Thank you. >> Yeah. All right. So we are done creating the VPC. Where where are we with time? I think we are making good time. and we should be able to finish this project today. And one thing I want to mention is at the end of this project, I'll show you guys how to clean up certain things today, but you're going to need it next week, right? So, the VPC, we are done creating the VPC until the end of this project. So, we won't be creating the VPC anymore. So, I advise you watch the playback. Watch the

02:04:27 - 02:06:07
playback. Um, make sure you understand what we just did. And in the document that I shared with you guys, there is a there is a uh checklist right here. So what we just did is uh uh VPC right. So here creating a VPC right enabling DNS host name. Understand the purpose of the main route table. Uh verify. >> Um just a second. Sorry. >> So, so verifying um AWS automatically assigns the subnet to a route table, right? Creating an internet gateway. So, I have all this checklist for you here

02:05:18 - 02:06:24
for like everything we just did now, things you should know. So, please Yes. So the ch the the the videos will be will be on will be on on here for you guys to watch the playback. So please understand everything we just did with the VPC. It's really not a lot but if this is the first time you are doing it I understand that it can look like a lot but it's really not a lot on and once you know how to build a VPC you're done for life. That's it. Once you get to work it's the same way. So uh let's move

02:05:51 - 02:07:17
on. So the next thing we are now moving into the phase of now that we have a VPC we can now start building our application in the VPC right. So the next thing we are going to do is before we build the application, before we build our application, we have to set up the security groups, right? Security groups is an additional security an additional security thing. Security group is an additional security layer that we are adding to our VPC. We have already set up the routes and everything, right? The route table and

02:06:38 - 02:07:59
everything. So now security groups is also an additional is a firewall that you are adding to your VPC to to tell what type of traffic that is coming from the internet you want to allow in your VPC. Remember we said that remember we said that as it stands now resources in our VPC and on this on this I've simplified it I've removed some of the resources for the VPC so you guys can see everything clear but when you are looking at this assume um the n gateway is there but I don't have it here because I only want

02:07:20 - 02:08:39
to point out the setting things to you guys so So as it is now the private resource in our VPC has access to the internet users on the internet don't have access to it and public subnet have access to the internet and users on the internet have access to it. Right? So that is just the general setup for our VPC. Now the security group is specifying which traffic from the internet you want to allow and this is another thing you guys should w should note or write down if you don't understand

02:08:02 - 02:09:06
when traffic are coming from the internet there's things that we call ports ports is like different I don't even know how to explain it but Just know there are ports on the internet which means that the different places from the internet a traffic can be coming from right and these ports they are number and you don't have to memorize it by you building stuff you will you will understand you will know the the main port so it's not something you need to memorize you might just do a

02:08:34 - 02:09:46
quick research on it a quick re research on it to understand it a good uh thank you uh I don't I'm not even sure how to say your name but thank you. He said like it's a connection point right so it's pretty much where the traffic is coming from the internet into your VPC so you know generally our VPC just we set up the this to have access to the internet and so on right so now the security group is the firewall that says that if a traffic is coming from port 22 I want to allow it if a traffic is coming from

02:09:09 - 02:10:13
port 90 deny it right so that's how the security group works so the next thing we are going to do is set up the security group for our application. So for this is the full reference architecture for our application right we are going to use EC2 we are going to use application load balancer and we are going to use a bastion host and you would understand what everything means by the time we are done right so let me clear this and also you don't don't feel like you have to understand the concept of

02:09:43 - 02:11:09
security group now get what you can get today but try to recite it to yourself to explain it to yourself, you will understand it. Okay. So let's start the first security group here. We are going to create a firewall that we will attach to this bastion host and we will talk about what a bastion host is. But for now just know we'll have a bastion host which is just an EC2 and we will attach the security group to it. This just means that when you this is you the engineer you are building this stuff. Now

02:10:26 - 02:11:42
when you launch an EC2 in your whether your public subnet or your private subnet how you would log into that EC2 cuz you remember EC2 is a computer but when you launch it in your VPC how you are going to log into that EC2 is through SSH. It's like how you connect to it. So you the engineer you are going to connect into your EC2. Then when you connect into your EC2, you can do things like install the website on it. Um update the software on that EC2. So that's what you are doing. This is a server

02:11:05 - 02:12:24
administration. We can call it that, right? You are logging into it and you are doing your administration work on that EC2 that you do on port 22. This is the standard. So you always that's how you learn it. You just start doing it and you know it. So what this is saying is that we are going to create a security group that will allow access into our VPC from port 22 but we are going to limit the source of that traffic to our IP address. So this just means that you you are the engineer you are here wherever you are sitting. Now,

02:11:44 - 02:12:59
when you launch your EC2, you will SSH into it. But the security group is only going to allow you to SSH into that EC2 if the traffic is coming from your specific IP address of your Wi-Fi or your internet right now that you are using. So that's what that means. And when once we build it, you will see it. So the second security group is going to be attached to the application load balancer and this is kind of like we're getting ahead a little bit because but I have to show you this to make the security group

02:12:22 - 02:13:30
make sense but once we start building things it will make more sense too. So we are going to have an application load balancer right remember I said when we now create our server which is in the private subnet here they will have access to the internet to download package through the N gateway but users on the internet still don't have access to it so when you now host your website on this application load when you now host your website on this two EC2 instance how is how Are the people on the

02:12:56 - 02:14:07
internet going to be able to access it? Right? How they are going to be able to access it is the true the application load balancer and this is how the traffic works. So anytime you guys type something on the internet, you type ww.app.com. I'm not saying this is the reference architecture Apple is using cuz theirs is probably more sophisticated than this. But for simplicity, when you type a website domain name, this is what's happening. This is you. You're typing www, right? It is going through route 53 which is

02:13:31 - 02:14:49
the domain registration right is coming through the internet gateway. And when we access something on the web any website those ports are 80 and 443. These are you will know this ones automatically because you use it so much you will know it. So I can even Google something all the ports you will see any ports has a designated number for it and is always the same. So I'm saying for internet traffic it is 80 and 443 and we will cover what those two means later on but just know internet traffic is 80 and 443 that's the port

02:14:10 - 02:15:30
they come from right so you you are accessing you are trying to request information from this EC2 on 80 and 443 that is you using Google Chrome you type the website so your traffic your request is going to come here and it is going to hit the application load balancer Right now the application load balancer is going to take your request forward it to the EC2 like uh it will say Ola is requesting something from you right it would take your request the application will take your request forward it to the init

02:14:50 - 02:15:52
will respond giving back what Ola requested right back to the application loans and the application load balancer will now give you back what you request. So, anytime you guys go on an internet and you are typing something, you are clicking a link to see something, that's exactly what's happening behind the scenes, right? The request, you are making a request to the server. The request is going, remember again, I repeat, you request something, it goes, it hits the load balancer in our reference

02:15:21 - 02:16:30
architecture. The load balancer now takes it, sends it to the EC2. The EC2 responds back to the load balancer and the load balancer responds back to you. There's no point where you are directing you are directly I don't have too much scrabble here. I hope you guys are following. There's no point you are directly requesting it like this. No, the request is coming to the load balancer. The load balancer is asking them the and getting the response and giving you back the response. Does that make

02:15:55 - 02:17:28
sense? So this is why when we create our security group that we are attaching to the application load balancer, we are saying the application load balancer will allow any traffic coming from the internet from port 80 and 443. Remember you'll be remember you'll be access trying to request the information on port 80 and 443. So that's why we have this security group we will create. Remember I now said when you request the information our server is here right the application load balancer is the one

02:16:51 - 02:18:22
that is going to ask this for you on your behalf right so that's why on the security group we will attach to the web server right it is going to allow traffic coming on port 80 and port 443 but only if it is coming from the load balancer. That's why you see the source here is saying load balancer security group. So this server is only going to allow traffic coming from port 80 and port 443 if it is coming from this. So if the traffic is coming from here, it is going to be denied. It would only allow it if it is coming

02:17:36 - 02:19:00
from the load balancer. Remember this is our server again and this is a bastion host. The the job of a bastion host is it allows you the engineer remember I said you have to log into your EC2 instance to do some administration work. So because the EC2 instance are in the private subnet you as the administrator you also don't have direct access to it like this. You can't just SSH. Remember I said the how you will log into it is through SSH which is on port 22. You can't just log into it directly like

02:18:18 - 02:19:51
that. You two you are denied. Right? So how you'll be able to log into it is how you'll be able to log into it is through the Bastion host. Right? So, and how it works is you log into the Bastion host and we'll cover all this today and from the Bastion host you can now log into your EC2. So here you are logging into the into this on port 22. So that's why we have this security group here. this security group rule that is saying that the EC2 would allow traffic on port 22 if it is coming from the bastion host

02:19:08 - 02:20:32
cuz remember you have to log into here first then from here is when you log into here so truly it is this it is only this bastion host that has access to the server and this is for security purpose so you don't have access to it does that make sense and you guys Please respond if it makes sense. Just give me a yes, no, maybe, or with your question. So, it's like the question point before we create it. Okay. Yes. All right. Cool. All right. Let's Okay. Let's uh create the the security group.

02:19:54 - 02:21:26
So in our VPC we are going to select security groups here and we are going to click create security group. The first security group we will create is the one we will call the SSH security group. So now we'll just make this specific to the project name cuz the project is the application we are deploying is Jupiter. So we can call it dev jupiter ssh security group. So here you give it a name. You call it dev uh what is what did I call it? Dev uh jupiter dev j ssh sg. Then I'm going to use the same name for

02:20:50 - 02:22:20
the description. So just copy the name, put it in the description. And under VPC, make sure you select this dropdown and select your dev VPC. Make sure you select the right VPC. Then under inbound rule, right, we are going to click add row. Then remember this is the this is the one we will use to log our EC2 instance. So here we are going to select SSH cuz that's how you log into your EC2 instance. It is that's the standard SSH right then for the source right we are going to select here and select my IP.

02:21:36 - 02:22:44
So this is saying that you want to SSH into your EC2 instance from your IP. So this is this means that only you where you are now can log into your EC2 instance. Anybody else will not be able to log into your EC2 instance. Right? Let's say I change this to anywhere. Right? I'm changing it to internet. That means that anybody on the internet can log into your EC2 instance. For security purpose, you don't ever want to do that. This is like a big no no at work. So you always want to make

02:22:10 - 02:23:28
sure it is on your IP. And that's all we need to do to create our SSH security group. The outbound rule, leave it as the same. Don't change it. And click create security group. The second security group we are going to create is the one I said for the for the um load balancer. Right? So we are going to click security groups here. So, if you click security groups here, it'll bring you back to security groups. Click create security group. And we're going to give it a name. We'll call it dev

02:22:53 - 02:24:01
um Jupiter. That's the name of the project. And the reason why I am also doing a naming convention like this for you guys to see is just we are not taking any shortcut when you are learning. You are learning everything. from setting up everything from a security standpoint or and also properly naming your resources because this is also very important at work. You're not just going to be able to just name it anything you want. It is there are good reasons why you want to name a resource.

02:23:27 - 02:24:44
For example, we can be using the same VPC to for like four different application. So when we look in the VPC, we can say okay, this security group belongs to this application. This security group belongs to the application. So that's why I'm including the application name in the security group. Right? So here we'll call it dev jupiter alb sg. So let's copy that name and we will use the same name for the description. Then make sure you select your VPC and um we are also going to select the inbound

02:24:06 - 02:25:40
route to add our route. Remember the application load balancer is going to allow traffic on port 80 and port 443. So here we are going to look for HTTP. 8 port 80 traffic is on HTTP. You can see as soon as I select HTTP it says 80, right? then that traffic is going to come from the internet. Remember the application load balancer is allowing traffic from the internet. So uh give me a second. So here we are going to select here and you can select 0.0.0 zero here or under this source custom just select anywhere on IPv4.

02:24:57 - 02:26:42
Then we are going to add another row for 443. So select here and select look for HTTPS which is 443 and the same thing you say anywhere on IPv4. So it means that anywhere from the internet we will allow that traffic. The outbound rule is going to be the same and we are just going to click create security group. So this is what the rule looks like. You have two rules HTTP and HTTPS anywhere on IPv4. So the last security group we will create is the one for the web servers. Right. So we are going to

02:25:51 - 02:27:50
click security groups here to come back. Then click uh create security group and um we'll call it dev jupiter. I think it's called web sg. Let me just Yeah. Right. So, I'm going to copy the name and paste it here. And make sure you select your VPC. Then add inbound rule. Remember the web server is going to allow us to login from SSH which is on port 22 but it is only going to allow SSH if it is coming from. So here select in here then in here I want you to scroll down and you will see it is only going to allow SSH

02:27:05 - 02:28:16
if it is coming from that Jupiter SSH security group. So this is how you use security group to limit to limit traffic within your resources in your VPC. Yes, the first time you look at it is complicated. I mean you might be but I'm just think about it. Everything I said look at the reference architecture look at the flow it will make sense but the first time don't freak out. it it definitely makes sense after a while, right? If it is complicated now, then you want to do the same thing, right?

02:27:41 - 02:28:48
So, we're going to add another rule. Remember, uh this is going to be HTTP on port 80, right? The same thing. Remember when I was explaining it, I said that when you request the information, it will come to the load balancer and the load balancer is the one that will send the request to the EC2, right? So what the security group we are creating now is saying that the EC2 will allow the load balancer to access it. So that's why here we are saying HTTP on port 80. Then we are going to now click in there

02:28:14 - 02:29:42
and go down. And this time you want to select the ALB SG. Then we need to create one more for the HTTPS. And the same thing we'll select in here. Scroll down to the security group. And here we need to select um ALB. And that's all the rules we need. And we'll just scroll down. The outbound rule is the same. And click create security group. Okay, we are done creating the security group for this project. So, I'm going to go back to security group here. Then I'm going to filter by my VPC.

02:29:06 - 02:30:40
And these are the security groups I have. Does anyone have any question before we move on? >> Yes. Yes. Uh have a little confusion there. So we are we are going to SSH into our EC2 right. We have two other servers the the database and uh the web um application right. >> Mhm. We don't have a database. >> Oh no. Okay. Okay. We have the web application. We don't have a database. Yeah. So just like we SSH into the EC2, we also SSH also into the uh the web application. Is that the same

02:29:55 - 02:31:09
thing that like you want to update packages or you want to download um >> you know softwares and that so only you can only are you going to use the same route since you open port 22. Is it going to go? I don't know if you understand what I'm saying. Since we have two different server now, are we going to use the same for 22 to access both of them? >> Which server are you talking about? You talking about this one and >> this one? Yeah, this this other one. Yeah, this >> Yeah, they they're going to be the same

02:30:31 - 02:31:32
within. So the same way you can the same way you SSH. >> So the where the public one is where the public one is. And yeah and these other one >> same it's the same way you s into that. Yes the same thing. >> Okay. Okay. >> Right. This is [clears throat] but we we will get to this um um later on but this is our autoscaling group creating two servers but yes it's the same thing you you used to SSH into them. It's the same thing. >> Okay. So the SSH now will you still go

02:31:02 - 02:32:06
through the application load balancer you know in order to get into your our EC2 and our >> um >> the SSH is a different traffic itself >> traffic itself okay >> so it only internet traffic is going through the load balancer >> okay okay >> so okay >> only internet traffic is going through the load balancer ssh is just you the same way I'm just pointing it like this >> you um accessing it to think to you can access it to um do your administrative

02:31:34 - 02:32:50
work on it. Yeah, David, go ahead. >> Thank you. >> You're welcome. >> Quickly, the uh the last uh inbound rules for HTTPS, where was the source coming from again? Um, the source is coming from the Is it the same SSH SG or the ALB? >> So, you're talking about the the ALB, right? >> Yeah. The the HTTPS. Okay. >> So, inbound rules, right? >> Uhhuh. HTTPS. >> Oh, this is No, this is the ALB. No, the server. You're talking about the server,

02:32:22 - 02:33:47
right? >> Yeah. Um I'm talking about the last rule we added after HTTP. >> On which security group? The this the um this >> Yeah, the web. >> The web. Yeah. So, they are both coming from the um ALB security group. >> Okay. So the both the port 80 and port 443 are coming from the ALB security group and the port 22 is coming from the SSH. >> Thank you. >> You're welcome. All right. >> All right. Can I ask my question now? >> Yeah, sure. Go ahead.

02:33:06 - 02:34:21
>> All right. Thank you. So I just want to ask what what exactly is the best practice because um we've just we've just configured our security groups now which looks really tidy and neat but uh I've seen where people actually spin up their EC2s and then start configuring their um security groups and attaching it to the um EC2 service. So in a in a Niger work scenarios, what's the best best practice? Is this is it what we've done now or is it better to spin up the EC2 first and attach to security groups?

02:33:43 - 02:35:06
>> Um what we've done now is the best practice because um it allows you to just create all your security groups at once before you even start creating the resources. So as you create the resource, you can attach it, right? So, I mean, it's it's neat to do it this way. I'm not necessarily, but I'll say do it this way. >> Um, because let's say you create an um how can I um say I'm trying to think of like a a place where it it can be um complicated a little bit. So let's

02:34:24 - 02:35:46
say you create um your EC2 for example, right? >> And you create those the security group for the EC2 but you also want to SSH into that EC2 but you haven't yet create the bastion host right but you need to limit that that rule to the bastion host security group. So you then you you you understand. So it's kind of like it just I think it's better to just think of there's a reason why where EC uh security group also shows up in EC2 but it shows up in VPC. So I I'll say when

02:35:07 - 02:36:07
you are creating your VPC just account for your security groups for the application and you'll be done. >> Yeah. Cool. because I just discovered there's been a lot of back and forth and sometimes you try to SSH and then the security group is missing and not responding and they have to go back and I think it's it's way tidy this way. >> Yes, I agree. Yeah, because once you're creating everything on the fly like that, you could run into issues like that. Uh there could be also issues you

02:35:38 - 02:36:34
can run into where you have to create one resource before the other because there there's dependencies on the security group. So I would say create your security groups first. It goes with your VPC creation. It's the last thing you do after you create your VPC. Create your security group and you'll be done with that. >> Perfect. Thank you. >> Yeah. >> You're welcome. So right now we are pretty much we've done the the the complicated part. So now we at the point

02:36:05 - 02:37:31
where we can now start building stuff in our VPC to host our application. So this is the fun part, right? So next thing on our agenda is um we've done the security group. Now we need to start building our application. Right? So I've given you guys the application code. Right? The next thing we are going to do is upload the application code. We'll create an S3 bucket and we will upload the application code in that S3 bucket. Right? So then in your project asset that you downloaded your project asset that you downloaded

02:36:49 - 02:38:02
there's a Jupiter file there right is a zip file so we are going to this is the application code we will upload it into an S3 bucket in our account so let's create an S3 bucket in the search box here I'm going to type S3 and select S3 here. So I'm still using Northern Virginia. So whatever region I started with is still on my region. So that's where I'm going to create my bucket. So make sure whatever region you are using, that's the same region you use. Then here you

02:37:30 - 02:38:50
are going to click create bucket, right? It is going to be general purpose. Then we'll give the bucket a name. I have a naming convention here that you can use. It is uh where is it? So you can call it S3. No, you can call it dev. Your name your initials app web files because obviously you know we can we have to have unique S3 bucket names. So just call it dev and where I have aos notes call it whatever you want to call it. Call it your name. whatever you want to call it, app web files. So that's

02:38:11 - 02:39:14
what I'm going to call it. So I'm just going to copy this and I'll use that as my bucket name. Right? So once you enter that as your bucket name, you don't need to change anything else on this settings for the bucket. We will leave all this as default. Scroll all the way down. The only thing you need to make sure is that you are in the right region you are building your application in. Scroll all the way down and click create bucket. Someone already created the bucket in my in my

02:38:47 - 02:40:02
using my name. It's okay. So, I'll just I'll just switch it. But the point I added there, the point of it is for you guys to um think. So, we can all have the same bucket. So, let me just um add an S there. And I'm going to do create. All right. So I've created the bucket, right? It is somewhere in here or you can click view details here to go into the bucket. That would be the easiest way if you have a bunch of buckets in your account. So the next thing I want you to do is once you create that bucket, I want you

02:39:24 - 02:40:57
to take that web files, the zip code, the zip file that I gave you, the Jupiter one. So open the Can this thing get bigger? Let me see this. I guess it can get as big. This is as big as it can be. So once you open it, take the Jupiter zip file, click and hold it and drag and drop it in your bucket. But remember I am in the bucket first. Right? So once I create the bucket, I went into that bucket. Right? Then now I can I'm opening the wrong thing. Now I can um take this drag and drop it here. Once

02:40:10 - 02:41:22
you drag and drop it, then click upload and close. And now we've upload our web file into the S3 bucket. That's all we need to do. >> Excuse me. >> Yes. Go ahead. Ree, where is the bucket? Um, did you put it in the chat or somewhere? The one we're dragging into this uh S3 bucket. I mean the the folder. >> Oh, the the the web files. >> Yeah, the Jupiter. That's it. >> Okay. So, I remember this my in my email I gave you guys this file access to this. Let me send it to you.

02:40:47 - 02:42:05
>> So, in your email, you should see it there. So yeah, >> let me send this >> project assets download. I don't know if that's the one. >> So yeah, project assets, right? Download that one. So you want to click this to download it. All right. So once you download it, unzip unzip it. So you can see here in my downloads, I have my zip one. Then I unzipped it. Enter this. Then in here, just go in there. You see that Jupiter there? >> No, I did. But then it's showing me like

02:41:24 - 02:43:03
um project access one. Would that be it? >> Project access one. >> Project one access. Then click on it again. >> Right. Do you see it? >> I do. Yeah, I see the Jupiter. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. Um, did someone say something? Uh, okay. Perfect. Yeah, someone took my pocket name. It's okay though. Okay, so once you upload it and that's all we need to do and we are done with this part. So the next thing we need to do is create an AM row. The point of the AM row is and the IM row is this thing you

02:42:28 - 02:43:42
are seeing over here. The point of the IM row is when we launch our EC2 instance, right? And we SSH into that EC2 instance. Let's just say through the Bastion host SSH into the EC2 instance to start installing our application. The EC2 instance will download the application code from the S3. To give this EC2 instance permission to be able to download the application code from the S3, we need an IM rule. So this IM rule will be attached to this EC2 instance which will give EC2 instance permission to download the file from S3.

02:43:05 - 02:44:52
So that's the job of an IM role that we're about to create. Right? So let's go to the management console and here we are going to type AM select AM here and uh we are going to select rows and click create row. It is a service that will use that row that is an EC2 Right. And and um under use case we're going to select this drop down and select EC2. Then scroll down. Click next. This row we are going to attach a policy to this row. This is how we give this is where the permission is specified that

02:44:02 - 02:45:37
okay this is what whatever is using this row this is what I want to allow it to do. So on the search we'll type S3. So once you type S3 you should see Amazon S3 full access here. Click it and scroll down. Click next. Give the row a name. You can use the same name I have here is call it dev jupiter row. dev jupit s3 full access and scroll down and click and this is all you need to have so you have your row name right don't change anything here you can see s3 full access and click create row and

02:44:53 - 02:46:11
that's all we need to do so if you click view row you can see the row here dev jupiter row it has Amazon S3 three full access. And that's all we need to do. For those that are watching on YouTube, please if you guys um can if you guys can help me like or share on the live, even if you like it, that would be better. So, I'm trying to reach as many people as I can reach. So, if you guys can um help me like it, that would be appreciated because I always Well, never mind. That's one thing I always struggle with

02:45:35 - 02:46:52
is just like always like if you guys notice on any of my video, I never tell you guys to like or subscribe, but I always just always feel like if you guys find value in something like but helping me get it out to other people that may find value in it is appreciated in S3. uh in S3 uh you can find a file or folder upload button. Did you So you have a I'm assuming you have a bunch of buckets in your S3. So in S3 all you need to do is once you are in your S3 bucket if you type the name of the bucket it should come up.

02:46:15 - 02:47:37
So let me show you. So I just take a detail back to S3. You see I have a bunch of buckets here. If I want to find that bucket that I just created, I'll just type uh I call it something web files. So if I type web files, you don't even have to type the name from the beginning. You can type a hint of what you think the name is, right? So you can see it is right here. That's the bucket. Okay. All right. So the next thing we are going to do is we are getting to the fun part now. Server setup. So now we'll set up we've

02:47:02 - 02:48:34
set up our VPC security group everything. So now we are going to set up our EC2 instance right install our application on it. Set up our EC2 instance. SSH into it. then we are going to install our application on it. So here I'm going to uh pretty much show you how to um set up your EC2 instance SSH into it right and install your application. So before we start, we're going to first create a keeper, right? And for this first part, I'm going to we are going to launch [clears throat] our EC2 instance in a public subnet and

02:47:48 - 02:48:52
we will install our application there. But I'm only doing it this way to show you guys how to SSH into an EC2 instance in the public subnet. I want to first show you how to SSH into an EC2 instance in public subnet. Then we'll do the one for the private subnet. Right? I'm also showing you this way to show you to explain it's like a story what not to do right so and and also to explain the script so that's why we are doing it I just don't want to jump straight to the bastion

02:48:20 - 02:49:51
host and stuff like this I want to show you in the public subnet then we'll now do the private subnet all right so let's start the first thing we are going to do is create a keeper so in the management console Let's come here in the search box type EC2 and select EC2 under services. Then here scroll down here click keepers create a keeper and I called it dev dev keeper. So you can use the same name dev keeper. The key type is going to be RSA and make sure your private key format is pen.

02:49:16 - 02:50:25
We will all use PM whether you are using Windows or Mac P. Then click create key. One thing I want to explain is when you create a key two keys will be generated. You guys saw that when I created a key, something got downloaded to my computer and you guys will notice that on your computer too. That's because when you create a key, two keys are generated. A public key and a private key. The key you are seeing in the AWS console here, that is your public key. This is the key you will add to your EC2 instance when

02:49:50 - 02:51:10
you launch it. And the key that was downloaded to your computer, that is your private key, right? That is the key you will use to SSH into your EC2 instance. That is the key you want to keep private. You don't want to expose it to anyone. So now that you have um created the keeper, I'm going to go to the downloads directory where my private key is on my computer. Right? I want you guys to move your private key into the home directory on your computer. And the reason why you want to do this

02:50:30 - 02:51:45
is because when we SSH into our EC2 instance is just for convenience our when we SSH into our EC2 instance we will be when we open a terminal for example right if I open my terminal and windows for those that are using Windows will be using PowerShell and those that are using Mac you will use your Mac terminal. So when I open my Mac terminal, my wind my powers shell and Mac is the same way. It always opens to your home directory. So this home directory is where we will be running our SSH command from cuz I don't want

02:51:07 - 02:52:23
you guys to have to cd or point to where your key pair is. It just makes this simple. It's not a necessity, but it is important and it makes life easy. So, I want you guys to move this key from your home directory, from your downloads directory into the home directories on your computer. So, on a Windows computer, it's pretty simple here. I'm just going to right click on it and I'm going to cut. Mean that I'm deleting it from there. Make sure it's cut. Then you go to your C drive, right? Then you select

02:51:46 - 02:53:19
users. Then here you should see what what your name is for your computer. Mine is as I select it. Then in here I already have one in here. So let me delete that. Let me delete this. So I'll do that again. Right. So in my downloads, right, my keeper is there. Going to cut. Then I'm going to go to C drive uh users as this. and I'll paste it in here. Right? That's all I want you guys to do. For those of you that are on Mac computer and even if it's Windows, right? Another thing I did for you guys

02:52:32 - 02:53:51
is I um if you guys go in your project asset, you can see this that says move SSH key mark terminal move SSH key um move SSH key Windows PowerShell. So these are commands you can run to move your key. So let me open the one for the Mac terminal and I can log to my Mac. I'm I also have my Mac here. I can share my screen real quick for anyone that's working on Mac computer um to show you. Right. So here all you need to do is just open your terminal, run this command, right? Your key when you download it should be already be in

02:53:13 - 02:54:32
your downloads. The only thing you want to make sure is that you use the same key name. So if you are using a different keypad name, make sure you change the name here. Right? Other than that, it is going to work. So, what I'm going to do now is since the key is here on my computer, let me just quickly email it to myself, then I will download it on my on my Mac and I'll show you guys on Mac how to how to um run it. So, okay. Is anyone uh is any is anyone using Mac here? If you guys are using Mac, can you

02:53:57 - 02:55:12
type yes so I can know? Or if you need if you if you need help, let me know. So yeah, I'm just going to download. Um, so I'm just emailing the key to myself. Okay, then I'm going to um I think I also want to copy that command. I'm just emailing it to myself. So, all right, let me jump on my Mac here. Okay. Are you guys Which screen are you guys seeing? Are you guys seeing my Mac? Is that my Mac computer? You guys are seeing that I'm sharing. Why are you guys still seeing my Windows? Let me

02:56:02 - 02:57:25
Maybe I have to stop sharing here. Okay. Allow. Okay. All right. on my Mac computer. I'm going to share my screen here. All right. So for those of you that are using the Mac your Mac. So I'm going to first download the key. All right. So assuming you you created the key, right? You created the key in your Mac computer. On your Mac computer now, the key will be in your downloads, right? Which is the key you are seeing here. And you can see the key is in my downloads directory. So this is where

02:57:06 - 02:58:19
you should be. Then to to move the key, you want to move the key into your home directory. This is your home directory on your Mac computer. If you don't see this home directory here, right, with the one that has the house, how you find it is first select your finder, right? This is the finder. You can see here this thing. It's the finder, right? You can see here finder. Then you first click the finder here. Then you click finder up here and you click settings. Then it'll bring up this. Just make sure

02:57:43 - 02:58:46
you check that home and that will bring the home here. So you can see it here. So normally I always want to click and drag, but I'm always struggling with it cuz sometimes the click and drag don't work. So if the click and drag is not working for you, all you have to do is run this command and it will move it for you. So let me show you. I'm going to >> Can you do that? Yes. Can you do that again? How do you get to the settings? I don't see that on my Mac. >> So, so in your finder, right?

02:58:16 - 02:59:29
>> Right. Yes. >> Make sure your finder is selected. >> So, you can see Finder up here, right? You see Finder up here. >> Yes. >> So, once you see that, click the Finder up here and click settings. >> Oh, I don't have that. Um, okay. Yeah, I see it. Right. And you should see the house. Just check the house one. So now I'm going to open the terminal. Let me get out of my email. So I'm going to open the terminal. Right. The terminal is here. So to open the

02:58:55 - 03:00:17
terminal just press control command spacear on your Mac and you can type terminal. You should see terminal here. Click it and press return. So that should open the terminal for you. And I'm going to press command plus just to zoom in so you guys can see. So next open this move SSH key move SSH key um Mac terminal. So all you need to do is run this thing. Before you run it, make sure the only thing is your keypad should be in the downloads cuz when you when you download it, it automatically goes into your

02:59:43 - 03:00:55
downloads, right? Then also um then also you need to make sure that you use the same name. If the name is different, make sure you change the name. Everywhere where you see dev keeper.pam on this file, change it to whatever your key name is. So once you've done that, I'm just going to run this first command. So this is going to move the key from my downloads into my home directory. So here I'm going to paste that command here. and press enter. So when you run it, you don't get any

03:00:19 - 03:01:30
output. That means that uh the key successfully moved, right? So the next thing we are going to do is um the next thing we are going to do is if you go in the finder and you can see my downloads the key is no longer there. But then if I click the home, the key is there. Right? Then the next thing is you need to run chod 600. You only need to do this on a Mac computer to set the permission on the key. This is very important or else you're not going to be able to SSH into your EC2 instance. So

03:00:54 - 03:02:05
here I'm going to copy this and paste it here. Paste it and press enter. Okay, that ran successfully. If you don't get any output, it means it ran successfully. So next you can verify. I already visually verified it but if you want to verify the keys in your own directory run this I already visually did but I'll run this and paste it there. Press enter. Then when you get this output the mean the key is in your home directory. That's all you need to do for mark people and you are done.

03:01:34 - 03:03:13
All right. Does anyone else have any question? Okay, cool. I'll share back over here. All right. So, we've created we've created our key. Now, let's launch our EC2 instance and install our website on it. All right. So here we are going to go to EC2. We already in EC2. So we're up here. Come to the instances. Then select launch instance and we'll give it a name. We can use the same name I have here. You can call it uh dev jupiter web. So web for web server. So copy that name, paste it

03:02:35 - 03:04:16
here. Then for the application and OS, it is going to be Amazon Linux. Uh it is going to be Amazon Linux 2023. Scroll down. For the instance type, select T2 Micro. T2 micro. Then for the keypad, select this dropdown and select your dev key. Under network settings, click edit. Select this dropdown and select your dev VPC. Remember I said for to explain certain things to you guys and I'm trying to walk you guys through some stuff. First we are going to launch it in the public subnet but that's not the final state of

03:03:37 - 03:05:17
our application. But I just want to show you this just to show you how to run our how to install our application and also how to um SSH into an EC2 instance in the public subnet. So we are for the subnet we are going to create it in the dev public a1 dev public a1 or dev public a2 just in your public subnet. For security groups we will select existing security group because we didn't create a specific security group for this. we just um we just um create we didn't create a specific security group for this. So the security

03:04:26 - 03:06:03
group we can use here is we can use our SSH security group that will allow us to SSH into it. Then we can also use our ALB security group. That one has access to the internet. So that would allow us to be able to see our application once we install it on the EC2 instance. So those are the two security groups you should have your SSH and your ALB. Then scroll down here under advanced details. You want to select instance profile and select the AM role you created. We call the dev jupiter role S3 full access.

03:05:17 - 03:06:51
So that's all you need right? You need to add your AM rule. Select your key. add the dev Jupyter SSH and the ALB security group and make sure you put it in a public subnet too. Then here then here click launch instance. Everything from here will be will be we should be done pretty soon. So everything else should be should be straight straightforward from here. So we've launched the IC2 instance. We are going to SSH it into it. So select the ID of the IC2 instance to bring you here or just a second guys

03:06:13 - 03:07:43
or I don't even like selecting this icon. You can just click instances here and it will bring you to your EC2 instance. And we'll wait for that EC2 instance state to be running. You can see the EC2 instance is running now. Then once your EC2 instance is running, the next thing we are going to do is SSH into this EC2 instance. Just the advanced details. Sorry. So when you launch your EC2 instance right you've enter all this information right advanced details all you need to do here is under AM instance profile select this

03:07:04 - 03:08:40
and select Jupiter row S3 full access that's all you need to do there did you get it okay cool I'm paper there. Perfect. So once you add that um role then you can launch your EC2 instance. Okay. Now under instances right our instances is running. The next thing we are going to do is SSH into it. But before we SSH into it, I also want you to um before we s into it, I also want you to I want there's something I want to explain. Right. So in our project asset, right? There is our deployment script. I want

03:08:00 - 03:09:22
you guys to open it. I'm going to here open it. You can open it as a text as a text file but you can open it as as um text file or if you have Visual Studio Code open it. So if you click it you should just open it. All right. So here I've kind of like I've listed pretty much let me zoom in here so you guys can see. So here I'm showing you guys the comments. This stuff you see here with the hashtag before it. That is the comment telling you what the command is doing. This is actually the command, right? These are

03:08:43 - 03:10:00
the commands. So every one question everyone always has is like how do I know the command, right? So the question everyone always have is how do I know the commands? The commands you can easily find the commands on ch using chbd google linux community. The commands is not something you have to memorize. Honestly even me I don't memorize the command. A lot of the commands if I need to do something I look it up. But what you need to know is what you are trying to do. If you know what you are trying to do, then getting

03:09:27 - 03:10:44
the command is very easy. Then from getting the command is how you build your script. Right? So let's look at it. We I gave you a web file. You created an S3 bucket and you uploaded that web file into the S3 bucket. Right? We've launched an EC2 instance. So what we are going to do when we SSH into the EC2 instances. So let's explain this thing. So there is infrastructure which is the VPC security group EC2 everything we've set up. So once you've set up your EC2 remember this EC2 we just launched.

03:10:06 - 03:11:06
This is a plain EC2. AWS does not know what application you are trying to host on the EC2. So AWS just gives you a plain EC2 a plain server. Now you you would log into it and install anything you want. Just like you went to the store, you bought your laptop. I went to the store and bought my laptop. Right? Microsoft don't know what type of software you are trying to run on your laptop. So they give you all the basic one for your laptop to function. So if you need Adobe, you have to install Adobe on your laptop. And if I need

03:10:37 - 03:11:58
Microsoft Word, I have to install Microsoft Words on my laptop. It is the same way AWS gives us the EC2 without knowing what application we are trying to host on it. So that is why we have to SSH into the EC2 and now install the application on it. Right? And the other question you may be having is like if how do I know what to run what commands to run for any application I'm trying to install? Every application has a general knowledge of things you need to install. Here we are installing an HTML website. So it is the general

03:11:17 - 03:12:30
knowledge is what you will see in this script. The general knowledge is what you will see in this script. But let's say you are installing any type of application. The documentation for that application will tell you what command you need to run. So for example, if I'm just digressing here, install Jenkins on EC2. So let's say you're trying to install Jenkins on EC2, right? You can see you you come look for it. This is the Jenkins documentation. Jenkins on AWS. You can see in their

03:12:05 - 03:13:15
documentation prerequisite create a key pair create security group things we've been doing launch an EC2 instance install and configure Jenkins right so here they're telling you how to configure it you can see here they giving you the exact commands you need to run so you can see here downloading and installing Jenkins log into your EC2 run this command run that command run that command run that command right So what am I trying to say? I'm saying all that to say you don't have to memorize.

03:12:41 - 03:13:47
You don't have to worry about the script for now. The script will come based on what you are trying to do. Anything you are trying to do is going to dictate the type of script you will be writing. Right? So it's not something you need to memorize. You just need to understand that you just need to understand what you are trying to do which is what we are doing here. So we have a application code in S3 that we want to download into our EC2 instance. So you can see that brings us here. Here I'm just I add this export

03:13:13 - 03:14:22
here. And what this export will do is when we run it, it will allow you here we will update this with the URI of our S3 bucket. So what that allows us to do is that we will it allows us to save it in the memory of our EC2 instance. So when we finally run the command here, we don't have to put it here. I did it this way because sometimes when people are copy pasting stuff, they always make mistake and delete something here. Like there's a period here. If you delete it, your command will not work properly. So

03:13:48 - 03:15:34
that's why I add it here. So the first thing I want us to do is go to the management console. Then go to S3, right? Select your S3 bucket. Search your S3 bucket. Then look for that S3 S3 bucket you created. Let me just look for it here. Web files. So I think it's this one. Right. Select that bucket. Right. Once you select the bucket, you'll see that Jupiter.zip. Select it. And here you'll see the URI says S3 URI. Click this box to copy it. And here I want you to paste it here. So between those quotes, that's where

03:14:52 - 03:16:07
you want to paste it. So it should look like this. Then once you do that, save it. So this just means that when we want to download our Jupyter file from our S3 bucket. So now look at what's going on. Remember I said your script comes from what you are trying to do, right? So we have an EC2 instance. Once we SSH into the EC2 instance, we want to first update the EC2 instance. This is a general standard knowledge. Every time you create a server, you want to update always update all the packages on the EC2 instance. So

03:15:29 - 03:16:48
the command, the Linux command to update an EC2 instance is pseudo yum update. So here I don't want you to everyone knows people that does server administration a lot knows pseudo yum update. What I'm telling you is I don't want you to memorize pseudo yum update unless you do it so much you just know it. What I want you to memorize is what you are trying to do you and what you are trying to do is you are trying to update the packages on your EC2 instance. So if I just take this this what I'm trying to do and I go to

03:16:07 - 03:17:41
Google and I say lame Linux command to and paste it here. Update the packages on an EC2 instance. Press enter. Right. You can see pseudo yam update and if you are using there you know there's like different type of Linux right for Amazon Linux 2023 it is also telling you that you can use this too. So this is how you are resourceful as a cloud engineer. You are not really memorizing stuff. There will be some commands you will run a lot that you will know but really don't memorize it. What I want you to understand is what

03:17:01 - 03:18:31
you are trying to do. If you know what you are trying to do, you will know how to find that command. Right? Look at this. If I say L command L command to install the server you can see sudo yum install httpd and look at our command pseudo yum install httpd right so that's one thing I want you to understand about this script so and just to explain the script So we would we would SSH into our S2 instance. We will update our server. We will install HTTPD which is Apache server. In order for you to host an HTML website, you

03:17:54 - 03:19:04
have to install an Apache server on your EC2 instance. Just like I was showing you the Jenkins documentation, this is just a general knowledge for hosting um an HTML website on a server. You need this. Then once you install Apache, it is going to create an HTML folder. When we say directory, it's just a folder on your computer. On not on your computer, but on the EC2. So it is going to create this folder on the EC2. So here we are going to change into that folder. Go into that folder. This just will clean

03:18:29 - 03:19:34
up anything that may be in that folder. And we will now download our application code from S3 into that folder into that HTML folder. Because in order for you to see your HTML website, right? In order for you to see your HTML website, you need to be in the in the HTML directory and upload all your application code in the HTML directory. This is a knowledge for installing an application. But I'm saying don't there's so many different application you uh you can install and they all have different processes so you

03:19:01 - 03:20:17
don't have to worry about knowing exactly. I've I know this processes because I've done it for so long and also if you go and search how to host an h um install an HTML application on an EC2 Google will also give you orchard GP or cloud will also give you the steps. Right. This is doc documentation referencing. So for this part you are allowed to you are allowed to use uh documentation. This is not something you should feel like you need to memorize. So once we download the application code

03:19:39 - 03:20:59
we are going to unzip it. Then we will move all the application code into the unzip version into the HTML directory. Delete it and start our server. This is pretty much what the script is doing. Does anyone else does anyone have any question before we start? Right. So, but make sure you copy your your URI and update it here. So, next let's SSH into our EC2 instance. So, on your Windows you are going to open PowerShell. So, here if you type uh PowerShell That's how I open that. And on Mac, you

03:20:26 - 03:22:12
are going to open your Mac terminal. The same thing I just showed you that we opened, right? So to SSH into our EC2 instance, the command is going to be, and I already even gave you guys the command here, right? Let's open it so you guys can see. SSH command uh Windows, right? The command is going to be SSH I then the path to your keypad then EC2 user at the public IP address of your EC2 instance. So let's run that command. It is going to be ssh sshen i. Then the keeper the path to our keeper.

03:21:20 - 03:22:17
Remember we moved our keeper into this home directory. That's why I have you move your keypad here. So I don't really have to specify the path to it. If I just type dev the name of my keeper and press tab it would find it for me. So this is one of the it just makes it easy when you are connecting to your EC2 instance that your key pair is in the same directory. I like that's what I do. But let's say now you still left your key in the downloads. You would have to specify the full path to the downloads

03:21:48 - 03:23:11
directory. So I'm assuming everyone's keeper is in their home directory. So we're going to run SSHI the key name. So how I got this is how I got this is if you type D or dev part of the key name and you press the tab key it is going to find it for you whether you are running it on Windows or Mac then and for those on Mac you can give me a second I'll do the same thing on Mac then we then we then once you put your key name it's going to be SSH high then the next is going to be EC2 22-y

03:22:35 - 03:24:16
user at then we're going to go to the management console and we're going to go to EC2 Select your running instance. Select your web. Copy this. And we are going to go back to the terminal and paste it here. So remember I all I did is I copied the public IPv4 address. So remember when we enable auto assign IP on the EC2 that is this is what it's doing. It gave it this public IPv4 address which we can use to SSH into it. And this is what your command should look like. So once you type this you press enter.

03:23:40 - 03:24:50
The first time you try to log in is going to ask you to do this. You just type yes and press enter. And there you are in the EC2 instance. You have logged into the C2 instance. Once you see this, for those using Mac, do you guys get it or do you want me to show you how to SSH? But it's the same process. So assuming your key is in the home directory, right? You just run this command. It's the same SSH high. Press type dev the path of the name of your keypad. Then press the tab key. It will

03:24:16 - 03:25:40
find it in the same directory. Then it is easy to end user at the public IP address. Someone have a question. >> Do do we have to do we have to remember the SSH I >> uh No, you don't have to. But you will do it so much that you'll remember. >> Okay. Okay. >> Yeah. You because you you SSH so much into your EC2 instance that you will remember. So yeah, and it's not too much to raise. SSH I your keypad name and EC2 at user at your public IP. For those on Mac, are

03:25:00 - 03:26:22
you guys good? Before I move on, >> I'm fine. I'm a Mac user. >> Uh I'm just running mines now just to I'm getting a permission denied right now. Make sure you type in your command correctly. So, it should be EC2 user at SSH I. >> Also, make sure you set your permissions on your key there. >> Yeah. But if it's getting permission, >> permission deny is is check your command. Your command is probably wrong. >> Yeah, I think it's the permission on the

03:25:53 - 03:27:06
keeper. >> Okay. So, did you run the chod 600 on it? >> I'm trying I'm trying that now. Okay. So, how is it going? >> Just give me a just a quick sec. >> Why is he Why you running that? I just do want to say to you um thank you again for offering this class. Um I watched a lot of videos and tutorials in other areas and I have learned the most in here today just by you running this live like this. So hats off to you man. Appreciate it again. >> Oh thank you Chad. I really appreciate

03:26:59 - 03:28:04
it. It means a lot. So you guys feedback. So if is you guys find value in it uh it does help me motivate me to continue. So, um, thank you. >> Yeah, most definitely. Like I said, I've learned I've learned more than this one day, just a few hours versus watching videos for like two weeks. So, looking forward to the journey. >> Yeah, thank you. It's it's going to be it gets better moving forward. And next week, we don't have to build our VPC. So we will just since we already have our

03:27:31 - 03:28:48
VPC we'll just go straight into into our application our dynamic application which would go much faster you know uh we don't have to build any VPC moving forward cuz the VPC part and explaining it just takes time >> please uh hello >> yes >> should we should we leave all the resources running till next week. >> No, we'll delete the resource at the end. We'll clean up. >> All right, great. >> We'll clean up. Yeah. Um, how are you doing? >> I'm good. It was a permission. So, I

03:28:10 - 03:29:35
missed that. Um, was there a child that child command or was it? It was a permission issue. So, the chm mod I missed that. >> Okay, cool. I'm glad it's working. >> All right. Um >> actually I have a question. >> Yeah sure. >> So uh do we really need to understand about this command that we are giving to the um to the we to the key pair it's ch mode 600 why we are giving uh this digit 600 and what does that actually means the ch mode? Oh, okay. So, in in um

03:28:52 - 03:30:56
on Mac, let me show you. Let me just X plane CH mode command. CH mode. No, CH mod 600. So um so this is how you decode it and there's like a file I can find for you guys right. So when you run a CH mod on the key right uh the decoding of it means that uh it means read write execute right. So the so read is um R that is four right is two and execute is one. So here it is pretty much saying that um so when you do uh ch 600 you are pretty much specifying um that the six means that the owner has

03:30:04 - 03:31:16
read plus write access to um write permission to the key. So it's just like when you create the file the the permission of it is widely open right. So you need to tailor it into like a specific permission that allows you to be able to um SSH into it. So that's just what the CH mod 600 is doing. I know I can probably explain in a better way, but for is you only have to do this for Mac computer and if you are using Linux, right? Cuz the permission will be wide open when you create the file. So

03:30:40 - 03:32:25
you have to run that ch 600 to change the read write permission. So if you want to see the read write permission on your on your um key right. So if you guys run this command I don't know if it will work on on Mac on I don't know if it will work on powershell but let me try it. So type ls- l no ls- la. Try down. There you go. So you can see the different files you have in that directory. These are like the read write read right. So on the key pair, it just needs to be like this. So where's my Oh no, I'm on

03:31:33 - 03:32:48
the EC2 instance. Never mind. So I'm in the wrong Let me open another another terminal to show you. So I'm in my home directory where my keypad is. So if I ls- la Oh, I can't run it on PowerShell. But if you run it on Mac, you will see it. It would give you this. This is just the permission your key. It just needs this just the permission your key needs to have. That's the simplest way I can explain it. But I can find the documentation that explains the decoding of it. But it's the decoding of

03:32:11 - 03:33:10
it is what it is saying here on Google. But for Mac users to SSH, anytime you create a new keypad, you have to run that ch. But you only have to do it that one time. If you create a new keeper, then you have to run it again. But since you've already run it this time, you don't have to run it again. It's only just that one time. >> I got your point. Thank you so much. >> No problem. Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't explain much better than that. >> No, I think I think I I need to actually

03:32:40 - 03:33:37
revise my Linux uh fundamentals because you have already mentioned that. [laughter] >> So, yeah. So, yeah. So, this will be part of the things you add to your note of areas. Okay, I need to visit this area to understand because there will be things you'll be picking up from this project that you will need to do further research on to elaborate on it because I can't I don't know it all and I can't explain all in one section in one session. So >> I got your Yeah. Yeah.

03:33:08 - 03:34:34
>> No problem. All right. Why am I getting this? I don't know why I keep getting this um this thing pop up like it's on. Never mind. All right. So we have does someone else have any question? Someone was saying something before. >> Okay. Hi easy. >> Yes. >> Okay. Just to uh if I can just to throw small lights on the ch mode uh simple. So as you see uh within learners fundamental the first row that has the RW that is the owner and the second row is the group and the third row is the

03:33:50 - 03:35:06
users. So when you do a CH mode uh 600 the six means the owner has permission for read and write but the group and the others they they are both zero means they don't have any permission that is all that it means so the ch mode means like you're changing ownership or yeah of of it so as the owner can execute and read and write but if you log in like you a user or you are some other group you cannot even do that execution. So it's just the owner and when you check you see that you are the

03:34:29 - 03:35:54
owner. So okay you can see there is root root then user user >> yeah so that is yeah this is in the EC2 this is not yeah but >> yeah thank you so so basically um what was that captain? Yes, as is. >> Okay. So, what Captain said is pretty much correct. But for me, I just always know when I'm using Mac, I created a key pair. I need to run my CH mod to um to set the permission is a general knowledge when you are running SSH on Mac, right? So, that's that part. So, now we've we've covered how to SSH into

03:35:11 - 03:36:34
an EC2 instance in a public subnet um for both Mac users and Windows users. Now we need to um run our command on the EC2 instance. So I'm just going to dock this like this and my command left and right so you guys can see it better. Right. So first I'm going to clear my screen over here and next I'm going to first you guys can ignore this for now. We will cover this when we time. So first I'm going to run this command to export my S3 URI or before I even do that you can run sudo

03:36:02 - 03:37:25
su. This is changing to root user. So you can see here we went from EC2 user to root user and this is just giving you administr administrative privileges. So when you start running command you don't get any error. Then um then once you do that we can now paste this command here and run it right. You shouldn't get any output. So that means everything ran successfully, right? The next command we are going to run is to update our EC2 instance. So we'll copy this command, paste it here, press enter,

03:36:44 - 03:37:54
and that is going to update the EC2 instance. Let's give it a moment. So when you run it and you get nothing to do, it means there is no packages to update. All the packages are up to date. That is good. Then the next thing we are going to do is install Apache server. You know why? Because since we are hosting an HTML website, we need either an Apache server or an engineext server to host it. So we are using Apache. That's why we are running this. So here this and remember I said you don't have

03:37:25 - 03:38:28
to know for any type of what script you write is going to be based on what script you write is going to be based on on what application you are trying to deploy and the application you are trying to deploy will have a documentation that tells you explain the process and the commands to run to install every application that's the good thing about cloud there's always good documents doumentation for anything you are trying to do. So I've update my I've installed Apache. So I'm going to

03:37:57 - 03:39:00
clear my screen. >> U Daniel go ahead. Yes. Thank you. Um I know that there's a part of EC2 where when you're creating the um the instance you can also add the commands, right? So that it comes um prepared with all these commands you read. Is there a reason why you didn't do it that way? >> Yes. >> I'm just curious. Maybe you're trying to teach us or maybe like there's a particular, you know, reason just >> Yes, I'm teaching you guys because um what I'm trying to do is show you

03:38:34 - 03:39:39
guys everything step by step like why we are doing something right. So if I >> if I um we we will get to the script part but we will get to this we'll get to the script part but now you just need to understand what you are doing. >> Okay. So for understanding that's the only reason that's it. >> Mhm. Yes. Just for the understanding process. >> Yes. Thank you. >> Purpose cuz when we do our when we do our application load balancer cuz we'll still delete this EC2 instance right?

03:39:07 - 03:40:19
Then we still have to do the autoscaling group. We will use the script when we get to that part. Right? But for now it's just for learning pro purpose. You guys need to understand the basics of it. Right? Okay. >> So here we've installed Apache. Right? Now uh anytime you install Apache right it will create an HTML directory for you. And one thing I want you guys to understand about Linux is when you see um a a slash here um like kind of like a word slash a word. This just means that there is a

03:39:42 - 03:41:01
there is a folder called v and there's a in that v folder there is a folder called called www and in that www fer there's a folder called html. So if I paste this whole thing here, it will take me to the HTML directory. Or if I want to show you, I can type cdward slashvar, right? I press enter. Right? You can see I am in the var folder. Then in that var folder, if you type ls, you can see this ls shows you all the folders that are in that folder. So you can see there's a w folder here.

03:40:22 - 03:41:30
Then if you type CD you can go. So all I'm trying to explain is when you see something like this where we are saying CD and you see V that just means there's is a folder in a folder in a folder. Right? So I'm just going to run this to go to the HTML. Can still paste it here. Press enter. Now I am in the HTML. You can tell I'm in the HTML because it says HTML here. And maybe you also type pwd that also tells you where you are. Right? These are Linux command. You will know it over time and you don't have to

03:40:58 - 03:42:09
memorize it. The main thing about Linux is what are you trying to do? If you know what you are trying to do, you'll find the command. So now we'll run this next command to delete anything that is in this folder. There's nothing in there, but we just run this to delete it. Right? Then once we done we've done that we will now run this command to copy our file from S3 into the HTML directory on this EC2. So we run this you can see it has downloaded the file from S3 into the HTML directory. If I

03:41:32 - 03:42:42
type ls and press enter you'll see the zip file is here. That's the reason why we are doing it this way because I want to show you so you understand what you are doing. Right? So we download anytime you run a command we run a command to download a file. You need to ls so you can see that the file is there. Don't just go and run the next command. Verify what you are doing. Right? So now that we've download the zip file, we want to unzip it. Right? So we will run this command to unzip it. Press enter. We just unzipped

03:42:07 - 03:43:29
it. I'm going to clear my screen. Now I just unzipped the file. I'm going to type ls to see what I just did. You can see I have the zip version and the unzip version. Right? Then this next command is going to copy all the cuz all the application code is still in this unzip. But this is not going to make our website work. We need to we need to copy all the application code out of this unzip into the HTML directory. So that's why we are running this command. This command copies all the code out of the Jupiter folder right

03:42:49 - 03:44:07
into the current directory we are in. This means the current directory. There's period here. So make sure you copy everything and paste it here. Then press enter. So now if you type ls again you can see now we have all the application code the asset h index.html and the style css in this html directory. That's what we want. So the next command is just for clean up. We downloaded this and we unzip it. We really don't need it there. So we just want to do some clean up. So we can run this command to clean up.

03:43:28 - 03:44:46
Now if I type ls you can see this is all we have here. Then the next thing we are going to do is um enable this just means that this post command means that anytime you stop and start your EC2 instance the Apache service will automatically uh be enable and it would it will restart right. So that's what this means. So you run this bus press enter then we'll now run this next command to start the service itself. So run this press enter and we are done installing our application. Right. So now if we go

03:44:07 - 03:45:47
back to uh the management console. Let me just close some of this. You take your you go to your EC2 copy the public IPv4 address. Right. Copy the public IP IPv4 address. Then now let's um this zoom thing is always in the way. Let me just move it here. Now um open a new tab. Paste it here. Press enter. And there you go. We have our website. All right. So the thing about what we just did is we I did this process to show you how to manually install the application step by step, right? Running the commands.

03:45:05 - 03:46:28
That's one of the reasons why I showed you this way. I showed you how to SSH into an EC2 instance in a public subnet. That's one of the reasons why I did it this way. Um so but from our reference architecture standpoint and um a production server this is a no no you don't ever want your server in a public subnet. So this is just to show you the SSH part and running the command path manually. Right? So what we are going to do is we are going to delete our EC2 instance. Now we will we will launch the proper instance

03:45:44 - 03:47:17
in the proper instance in our we launch the proper instance in our private subnet. Then we will figure out what we need to do after that. Then we let me just tell you we'll now use create a navigation load balancer to be able to access it. So that's what we're going to do next. So we are going to uh clear our screen here and let me um go to EC2 terminate this EC2 instance. So select it and select terminate instance. Then just click terminate instance. Right? That instance is being terminated. Then we are going to launch

03:46:33 - 03:48:13
another EC2 instance. So click launch instance. Give it a name. We can call it the same name is dev dev jupiter web. So uh and you can see here on my website if I right click here and refresh is no longer working. So now we're going to give it a name. Call it dev jupiter web. The image is going to be Amazon Linux 2023. Description is the same. Instance type T2 micro, right? Uh keep pair going to select our key pair and network settings. We are going to select edit. Uh select our dev VPC. Then we are going to put this in any of

03:47:23 - 03:49:10
our private app subnet. So you can select private app subnet, private app easy one, private app easy 2. I'll select private app easy one. Then for the firewall we are going to select um existing security group right then select this dropown and select your dev jupiter web security group that's the one you want the only one dev jupitter web sg right then scroll down under advanced details here we are going to add our AM row. So this EC2 will have access to download the file from S3. Right? Then scroll down here.

03:48:16 - 03:49:19
Because this EC2 instance is in the private subnet, I already showed you guys how to manually run your command to install your application. So we don't need to do it that again. So this time we can use the same commands we ran previously because we run and this another thing I always I always tell you guys right I want to tell you guys for those of you that if you're following me for the first time when you are installing an application you need to do it manually like this the first time so that way you can verify

03:48:48 - 03:49:49
that your command is working because let's say that for the first time I went and put this command as a script on my EC2 instance and let's say there's a typo in it then you try to go access your site you don't your site is not working you don't know where where um it went wrong right the point of running it manually I don't care any type of application you are doing run all your commands do the installation manually first that allows you to verify that all your commands are working now that I've

03:49:18 - 03:50:39
verified that all my commands are working right now I can now use all these commands as a script so to use it as a script. All you have to do is add this. This is called shebang uh beam bash. So it's this hashtag exclamation mark beam bash. You just need to add it at the top. So what this does is it tells the EC2 um so here on that let's just say on that advance let's scroll down here to user data right. So in your script add this shebang then copy everything. Copy everything and paste it here.

03:50:04 - 03:51:09
And make sure you paste it properly and don't accidentally change anything. So this shebang that we add here is just telling the EC2 terminal or whatever to the interpreter to use the beam bash interpreter to run this command. That's what it is doing. So basically, anytime you're trying to run a script on your EC2, just make sure it has that sheen in the beginning, right? So this is all we need to do. Then we'll click launch instance. Remember we've add make sure you've add

03:50:35 - 03:51:57
your AM role up here under instance profile and add your script. Then click launch instance. So now we have launched the EC2 instance. We already covered this. So we are here now. We have launched this EC2 instance in the private subnet, right? But we don't have direct access to it. You are here. You can't just SSH into this EC2 instance the way you did for the one in the public subnet. So, in order to SSH into this EC2 instance, and the only reason we need to SSH into it is because I'm trying to one, teach you

03:51:22 - 03:52:26
how to SSH into an EC2 instance in the private subnet. And two, we need to verify that our script ran successfully. I mean, we'll be able to verify if we try to access our site, but since we are learning how to SS it into an EC2 instance in a private subnet, I figure I use that opportunity to verify that the files are there, right? So that will help us understand that our script executed successfully. So we can't you can't SSH into this directly. So that's why you need a bastion host. The bastion

03:51:54 - 03:53:18
host is what will allow you to SSH into it. So how it would work is you create your bastion host. You SSH into the Bash channel and from the Bash channel you SSH into your EC2. All right. So let's do that. Uh okay. So here we are going to come back to our management console. We've already launched the EC2 instance. Now let's launch our Bastion host. So we're going to click launch. Bastion host is just another EC2 instance. So here we are going to call it dev uh what's the name? Dev Bastion

03:52:41 - 03:54:17
host. and it is going to be Amazon Linux 2023 um instance type T2 micro um keeper we're going to select this drop down dev keeper right under network settings we select this dropdown and we'll select our dev VPC remember your bashion hose has to be in a public subnet So here we can select public dev public a1 dev public a2. Any one is fine. I'll select a1. Um security group. We're going to select an existing security group. And we would select the SSH security group. That's the only one you need.

03:53:35 - 03:54:58
And that's all you need to select. Nothing else. then click launch instance. So now we've launched two instances here. I'm going to the other one hasn't launch is still probably pending that's why. So if I remove this you'll see it is still pending. I'll give it a second to launch. just we just want to the status to change to running then we can proceed. Okay, status is changed to running. So if you filter here we have two EC2 instance our bastion host and our web server right

03:54:26 - 03:56:14
this brings us to the next part right in your project asset I also include SSH command um Windows PowerShell and Mac terminal let me cover the Windows PowerShell first right so here I'm going to open this command on with Visual Studio Core. So we already did this part, right? So to SSH into an EC2 instance in a private subnet on Windows, the best thing to use is is PowerShell, right? So before you use PowerShell, first you have to make sure that um SSH agent is enabled on your PowerShell. So let's do

03:55:22 - 03:56:46
that. What I want you to do is open PowerShell as administrator. So when you type PowerShell here in your search, right click on it once you see the app and click run as administrator. Then click yes. So we are running PowerShell as an administrator. So the very first command let me just the very first command we are going to run is this command on line 10. So that is going to check whether SSH agent is running on your computer. So cuz SSH agent needs to be running. So we'll copy it and paste it here and

03:56:10 - 03:57:36
press enter. Right? If you get running SSH agent, it means SSH agent is running. There's nothing else you need to do. But if SSH agent is not running on your computer, you are going to paste this one. You're going to paste this command first on line 13. Paste it here. Run it. Then you can run this too, right? To start it. And that's all you need to do. So if I run this again, SSH agent running. So you guys on Windows computer, make sure you do that. And this I've got it from try GPT.

03:57:00 - 03:58:13
>> I'm getting an error message when I run mine to start it. your start SSH agent. >> Mhm. >> Did you run this one for us? >> Oh, I'm sorry. I missed it. Sorry. >> Okay. Yeah. So, I got this from Chip. It's just this is just one time thing you have to do cuz on Mac computer SSH agent is automatically enabled there. So, you don't need to. But we I will I'll show you guys how to verify. But on Mac is automatic enable. But on some Windows you might have to enable it yourself. So

03:57:40 - 03:58:55
that's why we are doing this. So this is the only time you have to do it. Once you enable it now, that's it. You're done. And we can move on to the next thing. So for those on Mac, let me show you guys. So let me log share my screen here on Mac. All right. Uh yeah, we close this terminal. I don't think I have that file. Let me like I said for Mac, you don't really have to um but we'll just check just to make sure. But every Mac is the same. It should already be enabled on your Mac.

03:58:43 - 04:00:30
Um, nothing much you have to do, but we'll just check just to check. Let me just email the command to myself, then I'll we'll proceed. Paste. Yeah. All right. inbox download. Just going to open it here. SSH command. Right. I'm going to open my terminal. Let me increase the font. So here for your Mac all you need to do is run this the echo SSH O paste it here press enter right if you get this output it means SSH agent is running if you don't get it then you can run this command to enable

04:00:13 - 04:01:46
it so but Mac you should be good So now that we've verified that everyone good to go, let me stop sharing here. I like looking on my windows. All right. So, so on your Windows once you've enabled ISS agent, you can close as an administrator. You don't need to run as an administrator anymore. Then you're just going to open regular PowerShell, right? So I'm going to dock this here so you can see and my command right. So to SSH into an EC2 instance in a private subnet right first you have to

04:01:25 - 04:02:59
add your key um you have to add your key file to the SSH agent right the command to add your key file to the SSH agent is this one. So it is SSH - add then then uh SSH SSH add then the path to your key. Remember the key is in the same directory. So all I just need to do is type dev and it will give me the key right there. Right. So I just type dev, press the tab key, I get the key. Then I press enter. Then once I add the key, right, once I add the key, you can see here it says identity added. Once I add the key, the next thing we

04:02:14 - 04:03:39
can now do is SSH. Uh the next thing we can do is uh SSH into our bastion host. Right? So to SSH into your Bastion host, it is the same command we use to SSH. is just a slightly different thing we'll do. So we do SSH space-en capital A. So this capital A is saying that we want to take that private key we just added. We want to take it and we want to kind of store it in the Bastion's memory. So that way we will now use it to SSH into the private instance because what you don't want to

04:02:59 - 04:04:12
do is you don't want to just go and put your private key on the bastion host cuz the bastion host is in the public subnet. So you don't is a security risk to just go and put your key there. But this uh SSH ad we just did allows us to be able to forward the private key from our computer through the B channel to the um to the private server. So that's why when you are running your command this A is very important. So make sure you put capital A. Then you do your regular I and the your key pair and it is which is

04:03:35 - 04:05:09
dev key. So I'll type dev there and I'll press tab. it will find it for me. Then uh you type your EC2 EC2 user at the public IP address of your Bastion host. So let's go copy that. So here I'll select my Bastion host. Copy the public IP address and I'll paste it here. Press enter. Right. So once you paste and press enter, it will ask you if this is the first time you type yes and press enter. And there you go. I have SSH into my bastion host. So according to our reference architecture,

04:04:28 - 04:06:06
we have SSH into the Bastion host here. So now that we are in the bastion host from the bastion host from the bastion host we want to SSH into the EC2. So we would uh and to do that is very simple right? All you have to do is type SSH space. Then you type the username of your EC2 instance. Right? The server you are trying to SSH into is an EC2 instance. So you type uh EC2 user at remember that is a private EC2. So it is not going to have a public IP address but it would have a private one. So here

04:05:24 - 04:06:46
you come here and you see it doesn't have a public IP address but it has a private one. So click the private one, copy it and um paste it here. Once once you paste it, let me just show you in the so you can see that's what this is saying. SSH EC2 user at the private IP address of your web server. Then press enter. The first time you try to SSH it, it is going to give you this. Type yes and press enter. And there you go. We are now in our web server. You can tell you are in your web server because if

04:06:05 - 04:07:34
you look at this IP address, this private IP address, it is the same one as the one we used to SSH into it. So again, what we just learned is how to SSH into an EC2 instance in a private subnet. Are we all good? Hey guys, give me a yes, no, you're running into issues, whatever. >> Uh, hey, I I have a very quick question. Uh, as I'm using the Mac uh so I feel comfortable with like doing all the SSH and uh uh hosting uh this [clears throat] entire like project on Mac. So, do I really need to actually uh

04:06:48 - 04:07:51
practice on Windows as well or being on Linux is fine? >> No, Mac is actually good. I love using Mac for >> Yes. >> um for cloud work. But since a lot of people have Windows, that's why I like teaching on Windows. But I learned I learned all this thing on Windows. But if you look at what we are doing is it's the same thing. >> Yes. it seems >> with minor with minor tweaks here and there the same exact thing. So no continue to use your Mac. So you you guys know how I actually this is how I

04:07:21 - 04:08:29
learned Mac how to do cloud work on Mac and even how to use Mac period. When I got my job on one project that I had the option to pick between Windows and Mac I've never used Mac before and I forced myself to learn it. So I just requested a Mac computer and that's how I learned Mac. >> Okay. So, so for the for the job about the interview point of view uh so can we ask them that we are comfortable in Linux or Mac or if they if they because there are some kind of like like some interviews that that require a hands-on

04:07:55 - 04:09:11
test live hands-on test. So can we ask them actually that we are comfortable in the Mac environment or the Linux environment rather than >> Yes. If they most of the time if you go there yes if you can tell them um that you are if they have mark tell them you prefer mark but um I think you should you should know how to the difference between both if you are trying to do anything so I think you should just have that general knowledge of the difference between both right so you can see there's really no difference it's just

04:08:34 - 04:10:01
the the method of both use sshen a i. Um is they use the same thing, right? So it's it's the same command for Windows and Mac, right? The only difference with Mac is that we have to set the chod 600 which we don't have to do on Windows, but the commands are exactly the same. >> You are so right. Actually I have been seen a lot of um like videos before um uh before your um session and I have seen that people are um people are just doing uh installing the putty and then um doing some steps actually because you

04:09:18 - 04:10:27
have used the pam file right but there is another option to actually use the ppk file which is uh I suppose uh I believe that that is used for windows only so that makes a lot of difference and a very kind of difficult for me to actually understand. It's been like so many months. So I was just in a doubt that can I can I can you continue with the Mac or the Linux because I feel very um comfortable with that environment as well. Um yes, you're right. So which is the reason why I didn't use PPK. PPK is only

04:09:52 - 04:10:55
specific to putty and potty is only only works on Windows computer. Right. So when you guys are connecting to a instit instance, this is the best way to do it. Just use your terminal, use a pen file and it's the same process with Windows and Mac. So you Windows you use PowerShell, Mac, you use your Mac terminal. It's the same exact thing, right? And I feel like this this step is very straightforward. I started using potty too. All my past lecture, I actually taught you guys potty. But now

04:10:23 - 04:11:35
I I think this is the best way to do it moving forward. So use this use this. Hi. >> Hi. >> Hello. >> Hello. Sorry to interrupt. Um I also could I suggest to use mobile is also a good application to use for this matter where um to SSH. >> Um yeah sure. Sure. You if I've seen some people using that I haven't used it before. So >> Okay. um yet but if that if that is convenient for you and you understand the process uh yeah go ahead use it. Yeah. >> Okay.

04:11:00 - 04:12:25
>> Thank you. Thank you. >> You're welcome. So lie um you you were able to so did you um did you add your which one are you getting the permission deny on? Uh so when I try to SSH into the EC2 that's where I get that uh permission. >> Which one? The one in your public sub your bastion host or your your bastion host or your your already you are already in your bastion host and you're trying to SSH into your private server. >> Yes. >> Which one? >> Into the Yeah. into the private server.

04:11:42 - 04:13:09
the Jupiter there Jupiter web. Yeah. >> Did you add your key? Did you run the command to add your key >> to the >> uh Yeah. Yeah, I was able to. >> And did you add the A when you are running your SSH command? Check your command. I'm sure there's a typo somewhere. Uh so sshi dev key pair pam ec2- user at 18 uh this my IP address 18.11 >> is it the public is it the public IP address of the um share your screen real quick >> okay so we're supposed to with the dash Hey,

04:12:30 - 04:13:53
we're supposed to SSH into the the public or the private >> the the bastion host. You're supposed to >> into the into the bastion host. Let me >> um can you share your screen real quick because I don't want to hold everyone. >> Okay, give me a give me a quick second. Uh, do you see my screen? >> Yeah, it's a little bit small. Can you just press command command um plus >> command plus Mhm. How about now? Do you Is it >> okay? So, I don't see where did you run

04:13:31 - 04:14:48
the the Okay, but where did you run the command to add your your key to the to the memory? >> So, I ran that in another terminal just to Wait, hold on. to add it to the >> I think you have to be in the same terminal. You can't I don't think you can be in a different terminal and run it and then go run your command in a different terminal. Try that. Maybe that's the issue. >> Okay. Do you know how to exit out of the the SSH or command? >> Exit. Type exit. >> Okay.

04:14:20 - 04:16:07
So just press up up on your Okay. Well, you can do that too. If you press up, it will bring back all the commands you type. No, down. Down. That's it. Okay. No. Yeah. Run that one. >> Yeah. >> All right. Now run your Press up again. Now run that one. Now run your S uh SSH this. >> Yeah. Is that the IP of your >> Oh no. >> See you have ECL EC1 there. >> No. So, I think it was my um my IDE that changed it. All right, cool. All right. Um >> nice one, man. So, all right. So now

04:15:37 - 04:17:18
that we are in our private subnet, let's just check whether verify that the script we added to that IC2 instance worked. Right. So here we are going to um type cdward slashva slwww/html right then press enter right that will take us to the HTML. Then if you type ls you should see your asset index.html and all that stuff there. So this visually just looking at it lets us know that our uh script that we ran on that EC2 instance executed successfully. So now moving on we can't our EC2 instance now is here

04:16:32 - 04:17:56
we've installed application on it we can't users on the internet cannot users here cannot access it directly. So how we will give them access is through the load balancer. So we create a load balancer and the users can use the load balancer to access it. So that's how the load balancer works. So it allow and if you have multiple instances the load balancer can distribute traffic to them. So uh that's what we are going to configure next. Um escape here. I need to close this first.

04:17:16 - 04:18:36
All right. So here while we are still in EC2, the first thing we are going to do is create a target group. A target group allows you to specify what EC2 instance you want your load balancer to route traffic to, right? Yes, if the if the that's a good question. Yes, the user data does not would not stop the creation of your EC2 instance. If your script fails, um it will just u quietly kill itself in your EC2 instance, but your EC2 instance will still launch as usual. So, you will have to go check like this.

04:18:01 - 04:19:03
Um probably like what's the word I'm looking for? The output, the launch output or the logs for the EC2 instance to see if it executed successfully. See that's why I'm not a big fan of using the script right off the bat because if you have a error in your command and you go run the script your EC2 instance will still run but your script will not work. Yes. So your EC2 instance will still be provisioned if your script fail. Someone asked will your EC2 instance run launch if your user data script fail and the

04:18:31 - 04:20:01
answer is yes. Okay. So like I was saying, we need to create a target group and have the application load balancer um route traffic to that target group. So the target group is how you specify which EC2 instances you want your application load balancer to route traffic to. So while you are still in EC2, you would go to target group under load balancer. Here you are going to click create target group. The target type what we are trying to route traffic to is an instance. So select instance. For the target name we'll call it dev.

04:19:17 - 04:20:55
I think it's called dev dev jupitter tg. Let me just use whatever name I have. Yeah, dev jupit tgg. Right. For the protocol, we'll leave it on HTTP port 80. IP type is going to be IPv4. For the VPC, select this dropdown and select your dev VPC. And for the health checks, we are going to leave all this as default. Then click next. And here is where you are going to register your targets to the target group. Meaning that the EC2 instance you want your load balancer to route traffic to. Right here we only want it to route

04:20:09 - 04:21:32
traffic to our Jupiter web server. So we'll select our Jupyter web server here. Once you select it, click include as pending below. Then you should see it down here and you click next. Then on this page you can review and click create target group. We have successfully created the target group. You can see the instance here and right now it is going to say unused cuz our application load balancer we haven't created it yet to route traffic to it. Yes. Yes. You can find the recording on YouTube.

04:21:02 - 04:22:32
So the next thing we are going to do now is create a load balancer. So click load balancers here. I'm going to click create load balancer. It's going to be an application load balancer. Click create. We'll give it a name. I think it's called dev jupiter alb for load balancer. It is going to be internet facing and the load balancer IP address type is going to be IPv4. Under network mapping, select your VPC, the dev VPC. And in that VPC, we are using two availability zone. Select availability

04:21:47 - 04:23:20
zone US the first one what whichever one you are using and in that availability zone you want to make sure you must use the public subnet application load balancer works in the public subnet not the private subnet. Then um you select the second availability zone too right and you also want to pick the public subnet in that availability zone. Then under security group remove the default. Select here and select the application load balancer security group. Click out right listeners. Right under listeners and route we'll leave

04:22:33 - 04:23:46
this as default. Under default action we'll be forwarding traffic to our target group. This is how your application load balancer forest traffic to your target group. So here under target group select this drop down and select the target group you just created. Then we'll leave all this as default. So all you need to do is >> question on the very on the very top of an availability zone when you chose the second subnet do we put what subnet did we put it in >> in the public subnet? It only works in

04:23:11 - 04:24:28
the public subnet. >> Okay. So, we just put it in in the second one. >> Okay. >> Yeah. So, first availability zone, public subnet one. Second availability zone, public subnet, easy two. >> All right. Thank you. >> Yeah. So, just to Did you catch the other one or you want me to go slowly here? So security group application load balancer security group under listeners right forwarding traffic to target group here you select your target group then everything else is default so you can leave everything else

04:23:49 - 04:25:12
as here scroll all the way down and click create load balancer So we are creating the load balancer. We will wait for the load balancer to be active. Then we can now use the load balancer to access our website. So in the meantime while we are waiting does anyone have any question both here and on YouTube does anyone have any question about load balancer >> um I was going to ask you about the bastion host I think AWS has um um stopped using bastion host going forward >> or they >> okay

04:24:46 - 04:25:42
>> so AWS has the uh EC2 instance connect endpoint. Yes, when we work on our next project, that's what we will use. Remember, this is a for like I'm teaching you guys a bunch of stuff, right? Things you should know as a cloud engineer. >> So, I I didn't just want to use the endpoint >> without teaching you guys teaching you guys how to properly because there will be you might work at a company that don't use the end point that use normal SSH method. So I wanted to use this

04:25:14 - 04:26:42
first project to show you guys how to connect using SSH. >> Okay. Got it. Okay. Thank you. >> Then on the next one we would we would um use the endpoint. >> Okay. Got it. Thank you. >> Uh okay. You missed uh how to how the target group was created. So here under target groups click target groups. Right. Under load balancing, click create target group. It is going to be instance. You give your target group a name. Um, this protocol is going to be the same. IPv4 the same. Here you select

04:26:00 - 04:27:17
your VPC. This is going to be the same. L check is going to be the same. and you click next cuz I didn't give it a name. So let me just enter some random name. You click next. On this page you have to select the instance you want to route traffic to. Right here you can select your you have to select your web server which is your deb Jupiter web server not your bastion host. Then once you select it you click include as pending below. So it will add it here. Then you click next on this page. You review it and you just

04:26:41 - 04:28:18
click create. So that's how you create it. So we've created the load balancer is here. Let me just go back to the load balancer. It is active now. Right. So if you now see you'll see the DNS name here. Okay. Uh I'm I'm glad you got it. So you see the DNS name. Now if you now click here, right, and paste it here. Press enter. You can see we are accessing our site using the DNS of our load balancer. So that's how you access your site using the DNS of your load balancer. So um that's that. Then the next thing

04:27:54 - 04:29:03
we need to do is since now that we've done that, this is where the domain name comes in, right? So if you've registered domain names, right? You're not going to give this DNS to your end users to use and it's too long for them to remember. So that's why we have to use a custom domain name that is easy to remember. So let's just go straight to RA 53. And if you've registered a domain name, right, your domain name will be registered here. Like I said, if you guys can't register for a domain name,

04:28:39 - 04:30:00
don't worry about it at this point. Just watch. Um, and maybe later on once you get that sort out, you can. Then I have a domain name. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to my dashboard here. Not my hosted zone. Then select your domain name. This is not supposed to be here cuz it's from from other stuff. So, I'm just going to delete those for now. We will I'll show you what those means in the next. So, your domain should look like this, right? And you're hosted soon. So

04:29:19 - 04:30:43
we here we will click create record and under record name it will be www for our subdomain name and uh under alias toggle this on. Then we are going to route traffic to look for alias to application and classic load balancer. Then we are going to choose the region our application load balancer is in. M is in the Northern Virginia region. So I'll scroll down or you can type it up there to look for it. So Northern Virginia region is here and then I'm going to click here. You should see your load balancer in that

04:30:04 - 04:31:36
region. Then we're going to just click create record. And that's all we need to do. So we've created that a record. You can see it here and it's routing traffic to the load balancer which you can see here. So you can also check the status here to make sure this is in sync. Give it it doesn't take that long. Maybe less than a minute it should. There you go. So once that is in sync come back to your hosted zone. Click that record and you can copy the record name here. Now if you come back here and paste it,

04:30:50 - 04:32:10
press enter and there you go. You can see we are now accessing our website from our domain name right now. You can see that our domain is not secure where we are accessing where we are accessing this the port we are accessing this website on is port 80. Right? Because port internet traffic coming on port 80 is the one that is not secure. So we need to now configure another listener for port 443 because the where our application load balancer is listening now the only thing we configured is port 80. So we need to

04:31:35 - 04:33:07
configure another listener port for port 443. But before we do that, we need a certificate from AWS, which is how you what you will use to secure the traffic. So we would go to U management console and type type ACM and select certificate manager here. And on this page you are going to click request certificate. It is going to be a public certificate. Click next. Then here you are going to enter your domain name. Right? So remember I copied my domain name. I'm going to paste it here. But make sure you remove the

04:32:27 - 04:33:41
wyyoudomainame.com. Then for if our certificate has a subdomain name like the WW part cuz you know how when you guys go to website you guys don't type www. you probably just type the domain name right that's what this will work for then for some people that are typing www. we can request another certificate right for that one you will press star period and paste your domain name after it. So copy your domain name here and paste it. So that is how it will look your domain name up here start period

04:33:09 - 04:34:30
and you can see they are um explaining that here. So so once you add these two we are going to scroll down. This will be default. We will use DNS validation. Since we registered our domain name in Route 53, this will be what we'll use. Then we'll scroll down here. Everything else is default. Then we'll click request. We are now requesting the certificate. Uh we can click view certificate. Here it is pending. We'll wait for that to pretty much update. I'm not I'm not sure

04:33:55 - 04:35:03
what the status will change to, but the status has to change here. Yeah. So, let's give it um I think it's this status has to change. Okay. No, it probably don't need to change cuz it's saying we've we've requested the certificate, right? So the next thing is we need to create a record set in route 53 to verify that that domain name belongs to us cuz you can't just go and request a certificate for any domain. You you have to verify that the domain belongs to you, right? So because we

04:34:29 - 04:35:37
register for it in RA 53, AWS already makes it easy for us to verify there. So we just click create record in RA 53 and it will bring you here and you just click create record and that would automatically create that record set in RA 53. That is the one that you guys saw me that I deleted when I went to RA 53 and I'll show you guys once this is verified. So we've done that. If I refresh here, this should change to success. You can see success. Success. And now this the status of this should

04:35:03 - 04:36:47
change shortly too. So you can see certificate is issued and verification is completed. So if I go back to route 53 here route 53 hosted zone you can see that verification we did. This is what it created. Right. So now we can now use this certificate to secure our website. To do that we will go back to EC2. Select service EC2 under service. Then go to load balancers. Select your load balancer. Then here come to select listeners and rule. And the one thing I want to point out is the listener is how our load balancer is

04:36:08 - 04:37:42
able to um is listening on port 80. You can see here it's listening on port 80 and it is forwarding traffic to the target group. Right. So here we're just going to create another listener. So we'll click here add listener. And here you will change it to HTTPS which is on port 443. That is what is going to be forwarding traffic to the target group. And here we just select our target group. Then scroll down. All this is default but under default SSL TLS server certificate that is the certificate we just registered. So you

04:36:55 - 04:38:13
will select this dropown and select your certificate here. That's all you need to do and scroll all the way down and click add listener. So we've add the listener. I can see we have a port 443 listener forwarding traffic to the target group. We don't want the port 80 to be forwarding traffic to the target target group. So we want when people So what this is saying is like when people just go and type our domain name that's them trying to access it on port 443 because what makes something port 443 is when you see

04:37:38 - 04:39:04
this HTTPS you always see in every domain but if someone is accessing something on port 80 right now it's not showing it here but if I was to copy this right And let me see if I can paste it in a notepad or something. You can see that it is HTTP. So a site that is not secure will be HTTP and any site that secure will be HTTPS. So if someone is trying to access our site just like this, they will be accessing it on HTTP. But when they do that, we want to redirect that traffic to HTTPS. So we will take this port 80 listener. Click

04:38:24 - 04:40:00
on it here and here you say manage listener. Click manage listener and edit listener. Right. So here under forward to target group click redirect to URL. Then select full URL. Once you've done that scroll down that's all you need to do here and click save changes. So now >> I'm sorry. Can you go to that set? Can you do that one again? I'm sorry. >> Okay. So, so from here, you select your port 80 listener, manage listener, edit listener. It will be here. Click redirect to URL.

04:39:17 - 04:40:40
Full URL. And that's all you need to do. >> Okay. >> And save. Save changes. You're welcome. So, we've done that. If we go back to our listener now, you see our port 80 listener is redirecting traffic to HTTPS and our HTTPS is forwarding traffic to our target group. So, that's all we need to do. Now, if we refresh over here, you can see our website is secure. So if someone type www.domain name or just our domain name, it is going to to forward traffic to our target group

04:40:00 - 04:41:29
and our site is secure. So one last thing we need to do cuz I know we over time and I always like to be respectful of people's time. One last thing we need to do is we've already um we are pretty much done, right? The only last thing we need to do is our website is here our website is on the EC2 right it's just a single EC2 here if we terminate this EC2 which is what I'm going to do like I'm saying anything you guys are doing you can test it if we terminate this EC2 my website is gone.

04:40:56 - 04:42:07
Imagine going home for the weekend and all that stuff. You want your business to be running at all times. So just setting up our website the way we just set it up is not good because if the want that website go that easy to goes down, your website is done, right? That is where we need autoscaling group because autoscaling group will dynamically create your EC2 instance in case if any of them goes down. So that's what we are going to do next. So let's go to the EC2 console. To create an EC2,

04:41:31 - 04:43:13
you need a launch template. The launch templates is what specify what instance type uh AMI the EC2 should use. So here in the EC2 console, we'll click launch template. Create a launch template. We'll give the launch template a name. So here I'm going to select uh the launch template name. Now just use the same name for the description. Then this we are using it for autoscaling. So let's check autoscaling guidance. Right. So uh so here we can add a template tag if we want or if we have a source template we

04:42:31 - 04:43:56
would uh so no template tags are currently applied to this template. add a template tag to apply. So if you want to add a tag to this long template, you can add it. But I'm not going to add one. Right? So here we can select quick start under the AMI. We need to select which AMI we want to use. So we select quick start and select Amazon Linux. We will use the Amazon Linux 2023. Under description, it will be the same. Instance type, we will use T2 micro. For the keypad, we're going to use our

04:43:14 - 04:44:22
keypad. Under network, we are not going to select any subnets because we can do that when we create the autoscaling group. So, we'll leave that. But for security group, we can select this dropdown. uh we need to select existing security group and select this dropdown and select your web server security group can see my dev jupiter web security group storage we don't need to do anything here scroll down resource tag this means that when you create the when the autoscaling group is creating

04:43:51 - 04:45:18
the EC2 instance the tag you want to add to it so here we're just going to give it a name so select the name and for the value we can use the same value we I've been using which is the dev Jupiter web. So yeah, just paste that here. And advanced detail. Don't forget to do that part. Right. AM instant profile. Select this. And we want to select our dev jupiter rule. All right. So those CC2 instance as they launch they have access to download the web files and um scroll all the way down

04:44:38 - 04:46:15
under user data you are going to come to your deployment script copy it again and paste it here. And once you do that, you are going to create launch templates, launch template and view launch template. We have created the launch template. Now we can create our autoscaling group. So to create the autoscaling group, come down to autoscaling group. Then click create autoscaling group. Give it a name. This is the last thing we are creating for the day and we are done. Um here then you select your launch template

04:45:39 - 04:47:13
which we just created. Click next. here. This is why we didn't select the VPC or subnet in our launch template because we can do that here. So here we are going to select our VPC then availability zone. Remember our servers will go in the app private app. Right? So here we can select our private app E1 and private app E2. Right? So once you select private app E1, private app E2, click out and you can see it here. Verify your private app E1. Private app easy 2. So under availability zone distribution, this is

04:46:27 - 04:47:44
something that is new. I'm just going to leave it on the default. Then click next. On that load balancer, yes, we have a load balancer. So we are going to attach it to an existing load balancer. Then for the load balancer we are it is um we have a load balancer target group right so we'll select this drop down and select our target group this is um we are going to leave this as no lettuce service I'm not sure what VPC let does that's probably something new that I haven't visited before so let's

04:47:11 - 04:48:23
just leave that a lot of this thing is default right So health checks yes we want this we want the load balancer to check the health of our EC2 instance and if they are not healthy it is not going to route traffic to it. So we'll check this and we'll check this. So the grace period is 300 seconds. We'll click next. Position size it means that how many EC2 instance do you want running at all times? Let's just do one. But if you want to do two, you can do two. But for so you don't have a lot of EC2 instance

04:47:48 - 04:48:51
running, we'll do one. Then for scaling this, the minimum desired capacity means that when your EC2 instance is scaling up, let's say your EC2 instance needs to scale up for some reason. How many instance do you want to scale up to? Let's say over the weekend, you start getting a bunch of people coming to your website and you want to add more servers to accommodate them. How many servers do you want to the autoscaling group to keep adding until until it it can it will stop right that

04:48:19 - 04:49:29
is what this means so you will say I want it to add up to two EC2 instance and at the minimum let's say there's nobody coming to our site we don't want to leave EC2 instances running then we can say I want to I want you to remove up some EC2 instance and leave up to one EC2 instance so that's what this minimum imum and maximum means. So I leave it on one and two. This scaling policy is what I was just explaining. If you want to see if my website a lot of people are coming to my website add one more to add up to two

04:48:55 - 04:50:10
instance you will use scaling policy but we don't need to do any of that. So but just know the scaling policy you'll use. Then um instance maintenance policy we will leave it as as here. um no policy. So we just we will just let it do its thing and all this we will leave all this as default. So here just leave it as default. Click next. Notification. This is when your autoscaling group is adding new EC2 instances removing EC2 instance. If you want to get notification this is where you can set it up. It is optional. We'll

04:49:32 - 04:51:04
leave it as default. Then tag. If you want to add tag for your autoscaling group, you can add. We'll leave it as default. And here we just review and create autoscaling group. So the autoscaling group is creating our EC2 instance, right? Um the desired capacity is here. The minimum we want the desired capacity is one and the minimum is one and the max is two. So if we go to our EC2 instance console right the autoscaling group would start launching one EC2 instance for us. So here we have the bastion host. You guys can terminate

04:50:18 - 04:51:40
the bastion host. Terminate it. We don't need it. So here I'm going to refresh and you can see the EC2 instance is up. It is it has launched the dev jupitter web server. That's the autoscaling group launching it. So here I'll wait for it to remember I terminated my website. My terminated my instance and my website is not reachable now that I've created the autoscaling group that's created my site. If I refresh here let me see if my site is up. Yes it is up. And now the autoscaling group created

04:50:59 - 04:52:15
the server that is hosting my website. So the last thing we need to do is just test it. Right? We have our autoscaling group. So if you want to close all this thing, you have to go and delete the autoscaling group because if I this is what I was explaining. Let's say my website is down for the weekend. I'm just going to terminate this EC2 instance that the autoscaling group created. Right? Because my desired capacity on the autoscaling group is one. It would the event on the autoscaling group

04:51:42 - 04:53:03
can see on the activity the autoscaling group can see what's going on with this instance. It would it would be notify it would know that the EC2 instance is down. And if I refresh here, you'll see another instance will run. We'll see another instance came up. And here my site is still functioning. I mean it's still probably the EC2 instance is not fully it has in I need to give it time to run the script right but if I give it a little bit more time so this is why for your desired capacity

04:52:26 - 04:53:51
you might want to use like two two or three right so I just need to give it time for it to execute uh that instance there you go you can see took less than a minute my site was just temporarily Now it is now up and running. So this is pretty much this whole application how to host a um static application in on AWS, right? And with this you learn a lot of stuff, right? I decided to choose show you guys this way so you guys can learn a bunch of things. And these are all the things we covered today. Every single thing

04:53:08 - 04:54:18
here. This is the also the very foundation of your cloud journey for all the things we are going to build that will take you from where you are now to an expert. This is the foundation. So in concluding today, you need to understand every single thing we did here. So I'm telling you guys, if this is the first time you are building the project, this is where you would do the most work. So, if there's nothing you don't understand, redo this project over and over. Watch this video over and over. Redo the

04:53:43 - 04:54:50
project over and over until you make sure that every single thing we've listed I've listed here, you can do, you understand it. Not that not only you can do, but you you can speak about it. This is what's also going to help you in the interview. this we are building everything now as you go. So we are mastering everything as you go. So every single thing we have here make sure you understand how to configure them and it is also something you can discuss with someone you can talk about.

04:54:17 - 04:55:40
We covered every single thing here today. So this is something for you to checklist for you to go through, right? And in addition to that, use this checklist. Redo this project over and over until you understand everything on this checklist. Once you are done with the checklist, right, there's an assignment for you. This is assignment one for this project. In your project asset, I have a assignment folder here. And in this assignment folder, there's another file there, another project file. What I want

04:54:58 - 04:56:18
you to do is read this instruction. Right? So all what I want you to do is deploy this assignment application using only your notes using only your notes and the assets that I've provided. Meaning that you can use the reference architecture you can use the agenda that I gave you. You can use the notes you took and everything else. Don't use the video. Don't watch the video on how to configure it. use the notes. And the only reason why I'm doing it this way is for you to build your muscle memory. So

04:55:38 - 04:57:04
before you do the assignment, that's why I said go through the checklist. Make sure you understand the process to configure these things. Then um once you are confident in your ability, give it a test by using just your notes and things you've written down to try to complete the assignment. Um you have to hold yourself accountable. I won't be there to see whether you did it or not, but don't cheat yourself. Try to do um try to do um the things that you're supposed to do, right? So don't cheat

04:56:21 - 04:57:26
yourself. Challenge yourself to actually learn it. And that's it. So that's the assignment for today, right? So that's pretty much everything for this project. Next week will be a brand new project, a dynamic application. That should go a lot faster because we don't have to create a VPC. We'll just go straight into creating our resource. So in that, I'll show you what to delete today. Don't delete your VPC. We delete resources from our that we created today but not the VPC. So, let's start.

04:56:53 - 04:58:19
>> Um, real quick before we delete, do I mean as far as adding this to our portfolio, do we need to take screenshots we once we do the next assignment I guess that we can post like on our LinkedIn or put in our GitHub? Yeah, at some point because we ran out of time today, I will show you guys how to add it to your um how to add it to your portfolio uh in another another session. >> Yeah. So, um so let's >> Yes. Uh my question is how to add this uh project in GitHub portfolio.

04:57:37 - 04:58:33
>> Yes, I will show you guys in another class. So if we have time next week when we do the other project, I'll show you guys how to add it. >> Okay, thank you. >> Yeah. Yeah, no problem. >> Sorry, one more thing. >> Yes. Are you going to add this onto Slack for us? >> What did you say? Are you going to add it onto the Slack for us? >> What? Adding the the video? Um, >> yeah, the link will be there. So, it'll be on YouTube. It's on YouTube now. So,

04:58:05 - 04:59:16
it will be on YouTube. I'll add it to Slack for you guys. And if you guys want the cloud one, I'll add it. >> Yeah, please. >> Okay. Sure. >> Thank you. >> So, we will work backwards in the way we created our resources. So first we will delete the autoscaling group. So go to your autoscaling group uh actions delete delete and pipe delete here. So that's the only way you will be able to remove the EC2 instance because if you keep deleting the EC2 instance it will keep

04:58:40 - 05:00:02
spinning up new one. Then we'll give that time. Once that's done, the next thing we are going to do is cuz it's deleting the EC2, so it might take time. Hello. You are welcome. Thank you so much. Thank you guys for your feedback. I appreciate it. I know it's a little bit long, but look, that's the sacrifice you guys have to make, honestly. Um, >> this is this is awesome. Like I learned so much. This is amazing. >> Yeah. Thank you. I'm glad you guys did, right? Thank you so much. And for those

04:59:42 - 05:01:04
of you that um stuck around, I know it's 4 hours is a long time, but it's uh in the end it's going to be worth it. So, I'm waiting for this to delete, but let me It's cuz it's still terminating the EC2 instance. So, let's see if we can um delete our target group while that is working. I mean not our target group but our launch template. So the next thing we'll delete is the launch template. So um we come here to launch template. Select the launch template actions

05:00:22 - 05:02:10
delete template and type delete and click delete. Okay we can delete the launch template which is good. Uh, you guys give me a second, Nice. Okay, sorry. All right, we've deleted our um autoscaling group launch template. Now, let's delete our application load balancer. So select your load balancer actions delete load balancer type confirm and delete. So we delete the load balancer. Now we can delete the target group. Select a target group actions. Um, delete. Delete. And that is gone. So, while we are there, before I forget,

05:02:22 - 05:03:36
let's just clean up the record set too. So, in route 53, let's type route 53 over here. and we select our hosted zone. Search your thing, search your domain name. Sorry, the only one you want to delete is the A record, right? The certificate you guys don't have to delete it. AWS will not charge you for it, right? Because we deleted the load balancer. This is not going to route traffic to this is not going to that road bouncer is not available anymore. I mean you can always edit it but delete it. So to

05:03:08 - 05:04:20
delete it make sure you just here once you select it click delete record. Don't click delete zone cuz if you click delete zone you delete your whole zone. Click delete record and delete. You can leave this and you can leave your certificate. AWS will not charge you for those. Um so we delete that. um load balancer right so the next thing we need to do is let's delete our n >> yes >> sorry um what happens when you delete when you click delete zone please you were mentioning >> you will be deleting your your hosted

05:03:44 - 05:05:01
your domain names hosted zone >> oh yeah yeah >> so you'll be deleting that whole thing which is not good I mean there's a way to get it back but it's going to be so frustrating Um so we've delete we've deleted um the um those ones load balancer and things. So the main important one we need to delete remember we are not going to delete our VPC. So the main important thing we need to delete is the den gateway. So we are going to go to VPC here and we are going to select N gateways.

05:04:31 - 05:06:04
Select your N gateway actions. Delete N gateway. Type delete and click delete. Right. So it is deleting it. We'll give it um some time to delete it. Right. The the um when we were creating the N gateway, we AWS allocated an elastic IP that we used to run the N gateway. So the thing about elastic IP is if you allocate one and you are using it AWS does not charge you for it. But if you delete the resource and you don't you now that we've deleted the N gateway the the IP address we allocated

05:05:25 - 05:06:54
is just there. Now AWS will charge you for it. So once this is deleted, we will go and release that elastic IP. So it's deleted, right? So here we'll come to elastic IP up here. Select that elastic IP actions. release elastic IP address and release and that's gone. The last thing we need to delete is the security group. AWS will not charge you for it but since we are going to create we're going to use the VPC for the next project. Um I want us to clean the security group out of it. So next week we'll just

05:06:19 - 05:07:46
proceed. Right. So go to security groups filter by your VPC. So we only see what's in your VPC. The first security group we are going to delete is the web security group. Select that one. Click actions and click delete security groups and click delete. The next one it has deleted. It's just still showing there. Refresh. It is gone. The next one is the ALB. So select the ALB actions. Delete security groups. Delete. And the last one is the So if you refresh it is gone. The last one is the

05:07:06 - 05:08:19
SSH. Actions. Delete security group. Delete. You can leave the default one there. I don't even think AWS let you delete it. So you can leave the the default one there. and you can leave the uh the default security group and you can leave the VPC. AWS don't charge you for VPC. So this leaves this is if you accidentally delete your VPC or you delete for some reason you choose to delete it. If you want to follow along for next week, this is very important. So I should say it now. If you want to

05:07:47 - 05:08:50
follow along for next next week's project, you have to recreate your VPC up to this point. So you will create your VPC without having a N gateway in it because next week we are not going to recreate VPC anymore. We'll just go straight into building our application in the VPC. The only thing we will create in the VPC is the N gateway cuz we deleted it now. So we have to recreate it back next week and we will create the security group and from there we will start building our application.

05:08:20 - 05:09:44
So, so that's the that's the thing about that and with that that is this project. Um, thank you guys. It was I definitely have fun teaching you guys. Um, this is sharing what I know, right? Um, I I pray that it becomes more than this for you guys and you guys find value in it and take it, run with it, do great things with it. Um, Just like how you guys are doing this now. That is exactly how I started. It started from someone recommending it to me, right? Someone just said I was talking about ways to make more money,

05:09:01 - 05:10:15
right? Someone said, "Why not try AWS?" I looked at it. It felt like a long journey and it felt like something that was impossible. But I just every day again remember the theme of what I always want you guys to know is progress small progress every day accumulates to your big success in the future right just doing something in it every day does make a difference so you guys just continue doing what you are doing eventually it will get there so just like that I took a chance in it >> I have something here last thing I'm

05:09:39 - 05:11:07
going to show you guys let me show you guys something just my own uh personal journey. Just a second here. Download. So at that time when I wanted to start when I went when I was looking for how to something that would make me money this was my job at time right so you can see how much I was making every two weeks and this I don't really I haven't really I don't really share this I haven't shared it with anyone uh personally but when I started doing AWS within 5 years of being doing AWS,

05:10:34 - 05:11:52
I became a millionaire. Right? So, and I'm not saying I made all my money as a cloud engineer, but I made a good money as a cloud engineer. What that allowed me to do is I made good money as a cloud engineer, which now I have money to invest. So, I was able to get a lot of money from somewhere that I can invest. that even made more money for me. So that was how I did it. But and instead just like how you guys are doing now, I literally just took a chance on it. You guys don't ignore the noise of whether AWS is

05:11:13 - 05:12:20
firing people, whether they are firing people. If you are good and you are consistent, you'll get a job. There's always going to be job. Always. So the main thing you have to do is just do your part. continue to do the work and you'll be fine honestly. So that's my thing for today. Thank you guys. Um thank you. If anyone has any question I can stay five to 10 more minutes. >> I dropped the message >> question uh quickly. >> Okay. Yeah sure. >> I dropped the message. Oh gosh.

05:11:46 - 05:12:46
>> Okay. Uh hold on. Hold on. Uh so is that B case? >> Yes. >> Where did you where did you drop your message? >> Okay. So I said, "Is it possible I'm um able to talk to you after the class?" >> Um, call me. Yes, you can. We can talk. But I think Mr. Iel asked me the same thing to Is Mr. Iel still here? >> Yeah, I'm here. >> Okay. So, let me see. I will message you guys on Slack. So, can you message me on Slack? So I that way I have your Slack

05:12:17 - 05:13:19
thing >> because I may be able to call you on Slack directly cuz I have some like some family thing I have to go do. But um let me go check that first. If I'm free, I'll call you guys on Slack. >> Okay. >> Mr. Mr. is first and after Mr. I'll call you. >> Okay. >> Quick two things, right? >> I'm going to message you to as >> Yeah. So all right. The first one is um I'll go um the first one is when you created the uh the S3 bucket, right?

05:12:48 - 05:14:08
>> Mhm. >> I asked if if you don't mind, let me share the screen quickly. I just need to >> Yeah, sure. >> show me something. >> Can you see it? >> Um yes, I can. >> All right. Great. Great. Great. Great. >> So, this is the SG bucket that I created and um the file was here. >> Okay. Which is this. But then you said I should go in here and then here and then this. Right. The Jupiter one. >> Mhm. >> But then when I dragged click to drag

05:13:30 - 05:14:36
it, it it was just like this like this like this. So I just stopped and then I said, "Well, maybe later I will watch the video." [clears throat] Yeah. Yeah, then I was not getting the file in here. >> Okay. So the mistake you are doing is the mistake you are making is if you go back go back to that file. No, go back to your the file you were trying to drag in there. >> In your file explorer where you add the zip file. >> Yeah. So now go back go back some more. So click back on that file. Go back to

05:14:17 - 05:15:30
the first year right there. Go back again. So you can see the where you are clicking that is a zip file. So if the file is zipped, you're not going to be able to drag anything out of it. So the one you should be clicking is the one below it. The one you unzipped. So click in there. Yeah. Double click. Now it's there. Now drag that one. >> Okay. And >> so that's the first thing. Now the second thing. >> Um >> so once you drag it, you have to scroll down and click upload.

05:14:59 - 05:16:10
>> Yeah, it's right there. So click upload. All right. Uh what was the second thing? >> It took me a while to to get into the link or something. I mean accidentally I just saw the email yesterday and then I was like I'm not sure because I've been trying to get you with the Slack thing but every time I wouldn't get you. So this morning now when I woke up I said let me try to you know the link and then I was able to get you to the Zoom thing now with this one. So how do I get um the video now like go

05:15:35 - 05:16:58
>> so this video this video is on YouTube right? So I'm I'm recording it on cloud here but I think the one we did here I'll try to edit it very well that one but that will be like a long a long thing but um but the immediate one if you guys just want to watch the playback for this video is on YouTube so you guys let me share right so I've created a a playlist here so you guys just go on YouTube so go to my channel and here click on playlist and it is the Amazon AWS DevOps project.

05:16:20 - 05:17:30
So the one we did today, this is the first one. This is it. So you guys will see it here and you can watch the playback here. Does that answer your question? >> Yes. So those are the question for now but eventually I know we'll talk but for now these are the two that's okay. >> So I should have add you to the slack try I should have you should have you should have a slack invite from me because everyone even as of yesterday uh this week I added everybody to Slack based on who has an active subscription.

05:16:58 - 05:18:10
So check try to check your email. Sometimes those slack invite goes to the spam. If you don't see it, just message me, email me, and I will I will help you. I will sort it out. But you should have a Slack invite from me. >> Quick question. Are you going to drop the recording in the Slack like the whole stream or where will it be? >> The recording is here. I'll post it in the Slack now so you guys can >> Okay, thank you. >> Yeah. So, there's a link to the playlist. I'm just going to paste it in

05:17:33 - 05:19:05
that other in that other channel that um I created for this group. So then I'm going to paste it here so you guys can watch it there. Okay. Um anyway, thank you guys. Uh it was fun. I'll see you guys next week. I'll send I'll send out the information for um the project we're going to be building next week just like how I I did it uh how I did for this project. I'll send the same one out for next week. So my my my um my someone is asking for my Instagram. This is my Instagram.

05:18:24 - 05:19:39
I'm not sure if I'm logged in on this thing. >> [snorts] >> I do. While you pulling up, I do have one quick question. So, I am part of your paid um membership. >> Mhm. >> Um but I see on YouTube you also have member content only for um Terraform. Is this different from the paid? >> Um it's it's kind of like the same thing, but that one is just you just watch it with ads. Okay. >> Right. So, no, but it's this one is so if you're asking it's it's not entirely

05:19:04 - 05:20:12
the same thing, but I mean you you get the same project here, right? But um the only difference is like the one on YouTube you you watch it with ads and you kind of like do your own troubleshooting yourself. >> Okay. >> Yeah. So, that's the difference. One thing I'm I'm not sure if I'm added to that other Slack channel. >> Are you sure? >> Specifically. >> Okay. >> If you send something in there, I don't I didn't get no alert. >> Okay, let me check our idea. Where is my

05:19:41 - 05:21:04
phone? I don't think I'm logged into my um Just a second. I'm trying to find trying to find my phone is deep over here. So I can't find my phone. Anyway, I'll find my I think my my my my Instagram name I think is Obby, but it's like labi something like that. So, I'm trying to find but does anyone else have any question while I'm trying to find this? >> Yeah. Yeah. Aiz. Um, so regarding the trading, do you uh set up a different session for it? I'm just curious.

05:20:44 - 05:22:10
>> Uh, which one? Trading. Yes sir. Yeah. >> Um yeah, trading trading I kind of like have a in the in the in the channel I have a um in the Slack channel I have like a trading thing there and there's like a Zoom link there where I'm in the Zoom link every day like this. I have a Zoom link there where I um live there. Yeah, I trade. Yeah, I just kind of like trade live. So, yeah, you can catch me there. So, this is my this is my IG IG username. It's right here. I was asking

05:21:28 - 05:22:34
>> I'm not like really really too active on it, but >> So, why did you drop your IG? Because you mentioned, but I've reached out to you before using your AOS note um IG. >> Yeah. So this my personal one and this is my AOS note one. AOS I think I think that one is AOS note. Let me post it. >> Yeah, I reached out to you via your official um professional Instagram platform before. >> Everyone always use like different name. So I don't be knowing who is who. Now

05:22:01 - 05:23:13
our IG name is always like it's always like um something else. >> So I don't even know which one is me cuz there's so many be here. I was wondering when you said you don't remember. I was like, "Oh, no. I've contacted before through AOS not." >> I wish I was logging. Don't worry. Next time I'll log in if you guys But I don't. Yeah, but it's it's what I posted. It's like two double_labby. You'll see me. I mean, there's so many people here like that's

05:22:37 - 05:23:55
going by the same name that I can't. Anyway, let me even stop that recording because we're done with the we're done with the um Okay. Does anyone else have any question? >> No, no. Just add me to the group. >> What did you say? >> Please remember to add me to that new um Slack group you say you created. >> I will. I will. >> Okay. >> Yeah. This is not the question. And I just want to say thank you so much for your dedication, for the passion, everything. You put a lot into this uh

05:23:17 - 05:24:43
teaching. Thank you. >> Oh, you're welcome. Thank you everyone. You're welcome. I I certainly appreciate you guys um you guys being here. I'm excited to teach you guys as long as you guys are willing to learn. like if if I'm making a difference in just one person is is good enough. So guys, you guys are willing to link. U that's what gives me um and please also please um you guys help me share the video and like it too. That would help as well. Let me see if I can find my personal one

05:24:00 - 05:25:25
from here because I don't know my I don't know my username or my password. So, let's see. Yeah, this is me right there. Where is my Instagram? And not is my personal one, my business one. So all right. Uh uh thank you. Thank you Lally. I appreciate it. I'm actually happy to see a lot of Nigerians here. I mean I'm happy to see everyone. Hi Dylan. You're watching for you from YouTube today. I'm actually happy to see a lot of Nigerians here, you know. But I'm happy to see everyone in general.

05:24:57 - 05:26:23
But um thank you guys. I'll see you guys next week. Next week we'll work on the dynamic one. Then from the dynamic project we will work on on the next one is Docker ECS. Then from docker ACS kubernetes from kubernetes terraform terraform maybe anible anible cicd and that should cicd python not python I don't want python but lambda but it involves python. So when we get there I will I will discuss what you guys need to watch out for. So, um, but yeah, we do have, so I'm anticipating like this

05:25:39 - 05:26:53
will probably take us maybe 8 to 12 weeks to go get through all the projects, but we'll get through it. Okay, guys. Uh, thank you very much, Mr. Abel and Bis. I'll give you guys a call. Just let me go check some stuff real quick and I'll see you guys um next week. but you'll get an email from me on the details of everything. So, have a good weekend guys and don't forget your assignment. On the assignment, there's actually a Google >> Dropbox, no not a Google drive that you are

05:26:17 - 05:27:29
supposed to drop the screenshot of your assignment once you complete it. So, once you get through the assignment, post it in there so at least I can I can see who's doing what, right? And uh I'm sorry. I I want to say you guys name, but I I'm afraid to mess it up. So see you see you guys later. Bye. So >> So post it in there. You never know. Maybe whoever is consistent enough I may have like a prize present for you at the end of the project. Could be something nice. So use the on the Google Drive.

05:26:53 - 05:27:56
You'll see the link on the assignment. Try to get through the assignment. Challenge yourself and post it there. All right. Um Okay, that's it. I'm done. >> Okay. What? What? Yes. >> Yeah. What's the deadline to submit the assignment? >> Um since we are doing one project per week, >> right? So, your deadline should be this week. >> All right. >> Right. But I don't want to rush you guys because some people this probably the first time uh um this is probably the first time they

05:27:25 - 05:28:28
are probably building a VPC and all that stuff. So I really don't want to say rush it through this week. But whatever whatever time your time permits according to your schedule, do it. But don't slack on it just to slack on it. Don't slack on it and do it at your own time. But challenge yourself to complete it, but complete it at your own time that works for you. So I say anywhere from a week to two weeks because when we have next week's project, you will get another assignment. So and you will

05:27:56 - 05:29:00
probably get up to eight assignment as we work on new projects. There will be assignment. So it's just up to you how whatever works for you. But the main thing is just be consistent and complete it. >> All right. Thank you very much. >> No problem. Um all right. Thank you guys. I would email you during the week for the details on the next project and I'll see you guys next week. Have a good weekend guys. >> Thank you. >> Thank you. >> Byebye. bye. Thank you.